Title: A Connection-Centric Survey of Recommender Systems Research

Authors: Saverio Perugini, Marcos Andre Goncalves, Edward A. Fox

Published: 2002-05-22

Categories: cs.IR, cs.HC

Abstract:
Recommender systems attempt to reduce information overload and retain customers by selecting a subset of items from a universal set based on user preferences. While research in recommender systems grew out of information retrieval and filtering, the topic has steadily advanced into a legitimate and challenging research area of its own. Recommender systems have traditionally been studied from a content-based filtering vs. collaborative design perspective. Recommendations, however, are not delivered within a vacuum, but rather cast within an informal community of users and social context. Therefore, ultimately all recommender systems make connections among people and thus should be surveyed from such a perspective. This viewpoint is under-emphasized in the recommender systems literature. We therefore take a connection-oriented viewpoint toward recommender systems research. We posit that recommendation has an inherently social element and is ultimately intended to connect people either directly as a result of explicit user modeling or indirectly through the discovery of relationships implicit in extant data. Thus, recommender systems are characterized by how they model users to bring people together: explicitly or implicitly. Finally, user modeling and the connection-centric viewpoint raise broadening and social issues--such as evaluation, targeting, and privacy and trust--which we also briefly address.

Paper ID: 0205059v2

Summary:
This paper titled "A Connection-Centric Survey of Recommender Systems Research" was authored by Saverio Perugini, Marcos Andre Goncalves, Edward A. Fox and published on 2002-05-22.
It falls under the categories: cs.IR, cs.HC.
The research explores the following topic: Recommender systems attempt to reduce information overload and retain customers by selecting a subset of items from a universal set based on user preferences. While research in recommender systems grew out of information retrieval and filtering, the topic has steadily advanced into a legitimate and challenging research area of its own. Recommender systems have traditionally been studied from a content-based filtering vs. collaborative design perspective. Recommendations, however, are not delivered within a vacuum, but rather cast within an informal community of users and social context. Therefore, ultimately all recommender systems make connections among people and thus should be surveyed from such a perspective. This viewpoint is under-emphasized in the recommender systems literature. We therefore take a connection-oriented viewpoint toward recommender systems research. We posit that recommendation has an inherently social element and is ultimately intended to connect people either directly as a result of explicit user modeling or indirectly through the discovery of relationships implicit in extant data. Thus, recommender systems are characterized by how they model users to bring people together: explicitly or implicitly. Finally, user modeling and the connection-centric viewpoint raise broadening and social issues--such as evaluation, targeting, and privacy and trust--which we also briefly address.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/cs/0205059v2
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/cs/0205059v2
