Title: Synthesis of Mechanism for single- and hybrid-tasks using Differential Evolution

Authors: F. Penunuri, R. Peon-Escalante, C. Villanueva, D. Pech-Oy

Published: 2011-02-10

Categories: cs.CE

Abstract:
The optimal dimensional synthesis for planar mechanisms using differential evolution (DE) is demonstrated. Four examples are included: in the first case, the synthesis of a mechanism for hybrid-tasks, considering path generation, function generation, and motion generation, is carried out. The second and third cases pertain to path generation, with and without prescribed timing. Finally, the synthesis of an Ackerman mechanism is reported. Order defect problem is solved by manipulating individuals instead of penalizing or discretizing the search space for the parameters. A technique that consists in applying a transformation in order to satisfy the Grashof and crank conditions to generate an initial elitist population is introduced. As a result, the evolutionary algorithm increases its efficiency.

Paper ID: 1102.2017v2

Summary:
This paper titled "Synthesis of Mechanism for single- and hybrid-tasks using Differential Evolution" was authored by F. Penunuri, R. Peon-Escalante, C. Villanueva, D. Pech-Oy and published on 2011-02-10.
It falls under the categories: cs.CE.
The research explores the following topic: The optimal dimensional synthesis for planar mechanisms using differential evolution (DE) is demonstrated. Four examples are included: in the first case, the synthesis of a mechanism for hybrid-tasks, considering path generation, function generation, and motion generation, is carried out. The second and third cases pertain to path generation, with and without prescribed timing. Finally, the synthesis of an Ackerman mechanism is reported. Order defect problem is solved by manipulating individuals instead of penalizing or discretizing the search space for the parameters. A technique that consists in applying a transformation in order to satisfy the Grashof and crank conditions to generate an initial elitist population is introduced. As a result, the evolutionary algorithm increases its efficiency.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/1102.2017v2
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/1102.2017v2
