Title: A Methodology to Engineer and Validate Dynamic Multi-level Multi-agent Based Simulations

Authors: Jean-Baptiste Soyez, Gildas Morvan, Daniel Dupont, Rochdi Merzouki

Published: 2013-11-20

Categories: cs.MA

Abstract:
This article proposes a methodology to model and simulate complex systems, based on IRM4MLS, a generic agent-based meta-model able to deal with multi-level systems. This methodology permits the engineering of dynamic multi-level agent-based models, to represent complex systems over several scales and domains of interest. Its goal is to simulate a phenomenon using dynamically the lightest representation to save computer resources without loss of information. This methodology is based on two mechanisms: (1) the activation or deactivation of agents representing different domain parts of the same phenomenon and (2) the aggregation or disaggregation of agents representing the same phenomenon at different scales.

Paper ID: 1311.5108v1

Summary:
This paper titled "A Methodology to Engineer and Validate Dynamic Multi-level Multi-agent Based Simulations" was authored by Jean-Baptiste Soyez, Gildas Morvan, Daniel Dupont, Rochdi Merzouki and published on 2013-11-20.
It falls under the categories: cs.MA.
The research explores the following topic: This article proposes a methodology to model and simulate complex systems, based on IRM4MLS, a generic agent-based meta-model able to deal with multi-level systems. This methodology permits the engineering of dynamic multi-level agent-based models, to represent complex systems over several scales and domains of interest. Its goal is to simulate a phenomenon using dynamically the lightest representation to save computer resources without loss of information. This methodology is based on two mechanisms: (1) the activation or deactivation of agents representing different domain parts of the same phenomenon and (2) the aggregation or disaggregation of agents representing the same phenomenon at different scales.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/1311.5108v1
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/1311.5108v1
  - https://doi.org/10.1007/978-3-642-38859-0_10
