Title: How Easy is it to Learn a Controlled Natural Language for Building a Knowledge Base?

Authors: Sandra Williams, Richard Power, Allan Third

Published: 2014-06-09

Categories: cs.CL

Abstract:
Recent developments in controlled natural language editors for knowledge engineering (KE) have given rise to expectations that they will make KE tasks more accessible and perhaps even enable non-engineers to build knowledge bases. This exploratory research focussed on novices and experts in knowledge engineering during their attempts to learn a controlled natural language (CNL) known as OWL Simplified English and use it to build a small knowledge base. Participants' behaviours during the task were observed through eye-tracking and screen recordings. This was an attempt at a more ambitious user study than in previous research because we used a naturally occurring text as the source of domain knowledge, and left them without guidance on which information to select, or how to encode it. We have identified a number of skills (competencies) required for this difficult task and key problems that authors face.

Paper ID: 1406.2204v1

Summary:
This paper titled "How Easy is it to Learn a Controlled Natural Language for Building a Knowledge Base?" was authored by Sandra Williams, Richard Power, Allan Third and published on 2014-06-09.
It falls under the categories: cs.CL.
The research explores the following topic: Recent developments in controlled natural language editors for knowledge engineering (KE) have given rise to expectations that they will make KE tasks more accessible and perhaps even enable non-engineers to build knowledge bases. This exploratory research focussed on novices and experts in knowledge engineering during their attempts to learn a controlled natural language (CNL) known as OWL Simplified English and use it to build a small knowledge base. Participants' behaviours during the task were observed through eye-tracking and screen recordings. This was an attempt at a more ambitious user study than in previous research because we used a naturally occurring text as the source of domain knowledge, and left them without guidance on which information to select, or how to encode it. We have identified a number of skills (competencies) required for this difficult task and key problems that authors face.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/1406.2204v1
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/1406.2204v1
