Title: Synthesis of recurrent neural networks for dynamical system simulation

Authors: Adam Trischler, Gabriele MT D'Eleuterio

Published: 2015-12-17

Categories: cs.NE

Abstract:
We review several of the most widely used techniques for training recurrent neural networks to approximate dynamical systems, then describe a novel algorithm for this task. The algorithm is based on an earlier theoretical result that guarantees the quality of the network approximation. We show that a feedforward neural network can be trained on the vector field representation of a given dynamical system using backpropagation, then recast, using matrix manipulations, as a recurrent network that replicates the original system's dynamics. After detailing this algorithm and its relation to earlier approaches, we present numerical examples that demonstrate its capabilities. One of the distinguishing features of our approach is that both the original dynamical systems and the recurrent networks that simulate them operate in continuous time.

Paper ID: 1512.05702v2

Summary:
This paper titled "Synthesis of recurrent neural networks for dynamical system simulation" was authored by Adam Trischler, Gabriele MT D'Eleuterio and published on 2015-12-17.
It falls under the categories: cs.NE.
The research explores the following topic: We review several of the most widely used techniques for training recurrent neural networks to approximate dynamical systems, then describe a novel algorithm for this task. The algorithm is based on an earlier theoretical result that guarantees the quality of the network approximation. We show that a feedforward neural network can be trained on the vector field representation of a given dynamical system using backpropagation, then recast, using matrix manipulations, as a recurrent network that replicates the original system's dynamics. After detailing this algorithm and its relation to earlier approaches, we present numerical examples that demonstrate its capabilities. One of the distinguishing features of our approach is that both the original dynamical systems and the recurrent networks that simulate them operate in continuous time.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/1512.05702v2
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/1512.05702v2
