Title: Towards Wide Learning: Experiments in Healthcare

Authors: Snehasis Banerjee, Tanushyam Chattopadhyay, Swagata Biswas, Rohan Banerjee, Anirban Dutta Choudhury, Arpan Pal, Utpal Garain

Published: 2016-12-17

Categories: stat.ML, cs.LG

Abstract:
In this paper, a Wide Learning architecture is proposed that attempts to automate the feature engineering portion of the machine learning (ML) pipeline. Feature engineering is widely considered as the most time consuming and expert knowledge demanding portion of any ML task. The proposed feature recommendation approach is tested on 3 healthcare datasets: a) PhysioNet Challenge 2016 dataset of phonocardiogram (PCG) signals, b) MIMIC II blood pressure classification dataset of photoplethysmogram (PPG) signals and c) an emotion classification dataset of PPG signals. While the proposed method beats the state of the art techniques for 2nd and 3rd dataset, it reaches 94.38% of the accuracy level of the winner of PhysioNet Challenge 2016. In all cases, the effort to reach a satisfactory performance was drastically less (a few days) than manual feature engineering.

Paper ID: 1612.05730v2

Summary:
This paper titled "Towards Wide Learning: Experiments in Healthcare" was authored by Snehasis Banerjee, Tanushyam Chattopadhyay, Swagata Biswas, Rohan Banerjee, Anirban Dutta Choudhury, Arpan Pal, Utpal Garain and published on 2016-12-17.
It falls under the categories: stat.ML, cs.LG.
The research explores the following topic: In this paper, a Wide Learning architecture is proposed that attempts to automate the feature engineering portion of the machine learning (ML) pipeline. Feature engineering is widely considered as the most time consuming and expert knowledge demanding portion of any ML task. The proposed feature recommendation approach is tested on 3 healthcare datasets: a) PhysioNet Challenge 2016 dataset of phonocardiogram (PCG) signals, b) MIMIC II blood pressure classification dataset of photoplethysmogram (PPG) signals and c) an emotion classification dataset of PPG signals. While the proposed method beats the state of the art techniques for 2nd and 3rd dataset, it reaches 94.38% of the accuracy level of the winner of PhysioNet Challenge 2016. In all cases, the effort to reach a satisfactory performance was drastically less (a few days) than manual feature engineering.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/1612.05730v2
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/1612.05730v2
