Title: Beam Search Strategies for Neural Machine Translation

Authors: Markus Freitag, Yaser Al-Onaizan

Published: 2017-02-06

Categories: cs.CL

Abstract:
The basic concept in Neural Machine Translation (NMT) is to train a large Neural Network that maximizes the translation performance on a given parallel corpus. NMT is then using a simple left-to-right beam-search decoder to generate new translations that approximately maximize the trained conditional probability. The current beam search strategy generates the target sentence word by word from left-to- right while keeping a fixed amount of active candidates at each time step. First, this simple search is less adaptive as it also expands candidates whose scores are much worse than the current best. Secondly, it does not expand hypotheses if they are not within the best scoring candidates, even if their scores are close to the best one. The latter one can be avoided by increasing the beam size until no performance improvement can be observed. While you can reach better performance, this has the draw- back of a slower decoding speed. In this paper, we concentrate on speeding up the decoder by applying a more flexible beam search strategy whose candidate size may vary at each time step depending on the candidate scores. We speed up the original decoder by up to 43% for the two language pairs German-English and Chinese-English without losing any translation quality.

Paper ID: 1702.01806v2

Summary:
This paper titled "Beam Search Strategies for Neural Machine Translation" was authored by Markus Freitag, Yaser Al-Onaizan and published on 2017-02-06.
It falls under the categories: cs.CL.
The research explores the following topic: The basic concept in Neural Machine Translation (NMT) is to train a large Neural Network that maximizes the translation performance on a given parallel corpus. NMT is then using a simple left-to-right beam-search decoder to generate new translations that approximately maximize the trained conditional probability. The current beam search strategy generates the target sentence word by word from left-to- right while keeping a fixed amount of active candidates at each time step. First, this simple search is less adaptive as it also expands candidates whose scores are much worse than the current best. Secondly, it does not expand hypotheses if they are not within the best scoring candidates, even if their scores are close to the best one. The latter one can be avoided by increasing the beam size until no performance improvement can be observed. While you can reach better performance, this has the draw- back of a slower decoding speed. In this paper, we concentrate on speeding up the decoder by applying a more flexible beam search strategy whose candidate size may vary at each time step depending on the candidate scores. We speed up the original decoder by up to 43% for the two language pairs German-English and Chinese-English without losing any translation quality.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/1702.01806v2
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/1702.01806v2
  - https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/W17-3207
