Title: One-Shot Reinforcement Learning for Robot Navigation with Interactive Replay

Authors: Jake Bruce, Niko Suenderhauf, Piotr Mirowski, Raia Hadsell, Michael Milford

Published: 2017-11-28

Categories: cs.AI, cs.LG, cs.RO

Abstract:
Recently, model-free reinforcement learning algorithms have been shown to solve challenging problems by learning from extensive interaction with the environment. A significant issue with transferring this success to the robotics domain is that interaction with the real world is costly, but training on limited experience is prone to overfitting. We present a method for learning to navigate, to a fixed goal and in a known environment, on a mobile robot. The robot leverages an interactive world model built from a single traversal of the environment, a pre-trained visual feature encoder, and stochastic environmental augmentation, to demonstrate successful zero-shot transfer under real-world environmental variations without fine-tuning.

Paper ID: 1711.10137v2

Summary:
This paper titled "One-Shot Reinforcement Learning for Robot Navigation with Interactive Replay" was authored by Jake Bruce, Niko Suenderhauf, Piotr Mirowski, Raia Hadsell, Michael Milford and published on 2017-11-28.
It falls under the categories: cs.AI, cs.LG, cs.RO.
The research explores the following topic: Recently, model-free reinforcement learning algorithms have been shown to solve challenging problems by learning from extensive interaction with the environment. A significant issue with transferring this success to the robotics domain is that interaction with the real world is costly, but training on limited experience is prone to overfitting. We present a method for learning to navigate, to a fixed goal and in a known environment, on a mobile robot. The robot leverages an interactive world model built from a single traversal of the environment, a pre-trained visual feature encoder, and stochastic environmental augmentation, to demonstrate successful zero-shot transfer under real-world environmental variations without fine-tuning.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/1711.10137v2
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/1711.10137v2
