Title: Multichannel Speech Separation and Enhancement Using the Convolutive Transfer Function

Authors: Xiaofei Li, Laurent Girin, Sharon Gannot, Radu Horaud

Published: 2017-11-21

Categories: cs.SD, eess.AS

Abstract:
This paper addresses the problem of speech separation and enhancement from multichannel convolutive and noisy mixtures, \emph{assuming known mixing filters}. We propose to perform the speech separation and enhancement task in the short-time Fourier transform domain, using the convolutive transfer function (CTF) approximation. Compared to time-domain filters, CTF has much less taps, consequently it has less near-common zeros among channels and less computational complexity. The work proposes three speech-source recovery methods, namely: i) the multichannel inverse filtering method, i.e. the multiple input/output inverse theorem (MINT), is exploited in the CTF domain, and for the multi-source case, ii) a beamforming-like multichannel inverse filtering method applying single source MINT and using power minimization, which is suitable whenever the source CTFs are not all known, and iii) a constrained Lasso method, where the sources are recovered by minimizing the $\ell_1$-norm to impose their spectral sparsity, with the constraint that the $\ell_2$-norm fitting cost, between the microphone signals and the mixing model involving the unknown source signals, is less than a tolerance. The noise can be reduced by setting a tolerance onto the noise power. Experiments under various acoustic conditions are carried out to evaluate the three proposed methods. The comparison between them as well as with the baseline methods is presented.

Paper ID: 1711.07911v2

Summary:
This paper titled "Multichannel Speech Separation and Enhancement Using the Convolutive Transfer Function" was authored by Xiaofei Li, Laurent Girin, Sharon Gannot, Radu Horaud and published on 2017-11-21.
It falls under the categories: cs.SD, eess.AS.
The research explores the following topic: This paper addresses the problem of speech separation and enhancement from multichannel convolutive and noisy mixtures, \emph{assuming known mixing filters}. We propose to perform the speech separation and enhancement task in the short-time Fourier transform domain, using the convolutive transfer function (CTF) approximation. Compared to time-domain filters, CTF has much less taps, consequently it has less near-common zeros among channels and less computational complexity. The work proposes three speech-source recovery methods, namely: i) the multichannel inverse filtering method, i.e. the multiple input/output inverse theorem (MINT), is exploited in the CTF domain, and for the multi-source case, ii) a beamforming-like multichannel inverse filtering method applying single source MINT and using power minimization, which is suitable whenever the source CTFs are not all known, and iii) a constrained Lasso method, where the sources are recovered by minimizing the $\ell_1$-norm to impose their spectral sparsity, with the constraint that the $\ell_2$-norm fitting cost, between the microphone signals and the mixing model involving the unknown source signals, is less than a tolerance. The noise can be reduced by setting a tolerance onto the noise power. Experiments under various acoustic conditions are carried out to evaluate the three proposed methods. The comparison between them as well as with the baseline methods is presented.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/1711.07911v2
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/1711.07911v2
  - https://doi.org/10.1109/TASLP.2019.2892412
