Title: Compositional Attention Networks for Interpretability in Natural Language Question Answering

Authors: Muru Selvakumar, Suriyadeepan Ramamoorthy, Vaidheeswaran Archana, Malaikannan Sankarasubbu

Published: 2018-10-30

Categories: cs.LG, cs.AI, cs.CL, stat.ML

Abstract:
MAC Net is a compositional attention network designed for Visual Question Answering. We propose a modified MAC net architecture for Natural Language Question Answering. Question Answering typically requires Language Understanding and multi-step Reasoning. MAC net's unique architecture - the separation between memory and control, facilitates data-driven iterative reasoning. This makes it an ideal candidate for solving tasks that involve logical reasoning. Our experiments with 20 bAbI tasks demonstrate the value of MAC net as a data-efficient and interpretable architecture for Natural Language Question Answering. The transparent nature of MAC net provides a highly granular view of the reasoning steps taken by the network in answering a query.

Paper ID: 1810.12698v1

Summary:
This paper titled "Compositional Attention Networks for Interpretability in Natural Language Question Answering" was authored by Muru Selvakumar, Suriyadeepan Ramamoorthy, Vaidheeswaran Archana, Malaikannan Sankarasubbu and published on 2018-10-30.
It falls under the categories: cs.LG, cs.AI, cs.CL, stat.ML.
The research explores the following topic: MAC Net is a compositional attention network designed for Visual Question Answering. We propose a modified MAC net architecture for Natural Language Question Answering. Question Answering typically requires Language Understanding and multi-step Reasoning. MAC net's unique architecture - the separation between memory and control, facilitates data-driven iterative reasoning. This makes it an ideal candidate for solving tasks that involve logical reasoning. Our experiments with 20 bAbI tasks demonstrate the value of MAC net as a data-efficient and interpretable architecture for Natural Language Question Answering. The transparent nature of MAC net provides a highly granular view of the reasoning steps taken by the network in answering a query.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/1810.12698v1
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/1810.12698v1
