Title: Stop Explaining Black Box Machine Learning Models for High Stakes Decisions and Use Interpretable Models Instead

Authors: Cynthia Rudin

Published: 2018-11-26

Categories: stat.ML, cs.LG

Abstract:
Black box machine learning models are currently being used for high stakes decision-making throughout society, causing problems throughout healthcare, criminal justice, and in other domains. People have hoped that creating methods for explaining these black box models will alleviate some of these problems, but trying to \textit{explain} black box models, rather than creating models that are \textit{interpretable} in the first place, is likely to perpetuate bad practices and can potentially cause catastrophic harm to society. There is a way forward -- it is to design models that are inherently interpretable. This manuscript clarifies the chasm between explaining black boxes and using inherently interpretable models, outlines several key reasons why explainable black boxes should be avoided in high-stakes decisions, identifies challenges to interpretable machine learning, and provides several example applications where interpretable models could potentially replace black box models in criminal justice, healthcare, and computer vision.

Paper ID: 1811.10154v3

Summary:
This paper titled "Stop Explaining Black Box Machine Learning Models for High Stakes Decisions and Use Interpretable Models Instead" was authored by Cynthia Rudin and published on 2018-11-26.
It falls under the categories: stat.ML, cs.LG.
The research explores the following topic: Black box machine learning models are currently being used for high stakes decision-making throughout society, causing problems throughout healthcare, criminal justice, and in other domains. People have hoped that creating methods for explaining these black box models will alleviate some of these problems, but trying to \textit{explain} black box models, rather than creating models that are \textit{interpretable} in the first place, is likely to perpetuate bad practices and can potentially cause catastrophic harm to society. There is a way forward -- it is to design models that are inherently interpretable. This manuscript clarifies the chasm between explaining black boxes and using inherently interpretable models, outlines several key reasons why explainable black boxes should be avoided in high-stakes decisions, identifies challenges to interpretable machine learning, and provides several example applications where interpretable models could potentially replace black box models in criminal justice, healthcare, and computer vision.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/1811.10154v3
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/1811.10154v3
