Title: Facilitating Bayesian Continual Learning by Natural Gradients and Stein Gradients

Authors: Yu Chen, Tom Diethe, Neil Lawrence

Published: 2019-04-24

Categories: cs.LG, cs.AI, stat.ML

Abstract:
Continual learning aims to enable machine learning models to learn a general solution space for past and future tasks in a sequential manner. Conventional models tend to forget the knowledge of previous tasks while learning a new task, a phenomenon known as catastrophic forgetting. When using Bayesian models in continual learning, knowledge from previous tasks can be retained in two ways: 1). posterior distributions over the parameters, containing the knowledge gained from inference in previous tasks, which then serve as the priors for the following task; 2). coresets, containing knowledge of data distributions of previous tasks. Here, we show that Bayesian continual learning can be facilitated in terms of these two means through the use of natural gradients and Stein gradients respectively.

Paper ID: 1904.10644v1

Summary:
This paper titled "Facilitating Bayesian Continual Learning by Natural Gradients and Stein Gradients" was authored by Yu Chen, Tom Diethe, Neil Lawrence and published on 2019-04-24.
It falls under the categories: cs.LG, cs.AI, stat.ML.
The research explores the following topic: Continual learning aims to enable machine learning models to learn a general solution space for past and future tasks in a sequential manner. Conventional models tend to forget the knowledge of previous tasks while learning a new task, a phenomenon known as catastrophic forgetting. When using Bayesian models in continual learning, knowledge from previous tasks can be retained in two ways: 1). posterior distributions over the parameters, containing the knowledge gained from inference in previous tasks, which then serve as the priors for the following task; 2). coresets, containing knowledge of data distributions of previous tasks. Here, we show that Bayesian continual learning can be facilitated in terms of these two means through the use of natural gradients and Stein gradients respectively.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/1904.10644v1
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/1904.10644v1
