Title: Regression Networks for Meta-Learning Few-Shot Classification

Authors: Arnout Devos, Matthias Grossglauser

Published: 2019-05-31

Categories: cs.LG, cs.CV, stat.ML

Abstract:
We propose regression networks for the problem of few-shot classification, where a classifier must generalize to new classes not seen in the training set, given only a small number of examples of each class. In high dimensional embedding spaces the direction of data generally contains richer information than magnitude. Next to this, state-of-the-art few-shot metric methods that compare distances with aggregated class representations, have shown superior performance. Combining these two insights, we propose to meta-learn classification of embedded points by regressing the closest approximation in every class subspace while using the regression error as a distance metric. Similarly to recent approaches for few-shot learning, regression networks reflect a simple inductive bias that is beneficial in this limited-data regime and they achieve excellent results, especially when more aggregate class representations can be formed with multiple shots.

Paper ID: 1905.13613v2

Summary:
This paper titled "Regression Networks for Meta-Learning Few-Shot Classification" was authored by Arnout Devos, Matthias Grossglauser and published on 2019-05-31.
It falls under the categories: cs.LG, cs.CV, stat.ML.
The research explores the following topic: We propose regression networks for the problem of few-shot classification, where a classifier must generalize to new classes not seen in the training set, given only a small number of examples of each class. In high dimensional embedding spaces the direction of data generally contains richer information than magnitude. Next to this, state-of-the-art few-shot metric methods that compare distances with aggregated class representations, have shown superior performance. Combining these two insights, we propose to meta-learn classification of embedded points by regressing the closest approximation in every class subspace while using the regression error as a distance metric. Similarly to recent approaches for few-shot learning, regression networks reflect a simple inductive bias that is beneficial in this limited-data regime and they achieve excellent results, especially when more aggregate class representations can be formed with multiple shots.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/1905.13613v2
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/1905.13613v2
