Title: Automatic Machine Learning by Pipeline Synthesis using Model-Based Reinforcement Learning and a Grammar

Authors: Iddo Drori, Yamuna Krishnamurthy, Raoni Lourenco, Remi Rampin, Kyunghyun Cho, Claudio Silva, Juliana Freire

Published: 2019-05-24

Categories: cs.LG, stat.ML

Abstract:
Automatic machine learning is an important problem in the forefront of machine learning. The strongest AutoML systems are based on neural networks, evolutionary algorithms, and Bayesian optimization. Recently AlphaD3M reached state-of-the-art results with an order of magnitude speedup using reinforcement learning with self-play. In this work we extend AlphaD3M by using a pipeline grammar and a pre-trained model which generalizes from many different datasets and similar tasks. Our results demonstrate improved performance compared with our earlier work and existing methods on AutoML benchmark datasets for classification and regression tasks. In the spirit of reproducible research we make our data, models, and code publicly available.

Paper ID: 1905.10345v1

Summary:
This paper titled "Automatic Machine Learning by Pipeline Synthesis using Model-Based Reinforcement Learning and a Grammar" was authored by Iddo Drori, Yamuna Krishnamurthy, Raoni Lourenco, Remi Rampin, Kyunghyun Cho, Claudio Silva, Juliana Freire and published on 2019-05-24.
It falls under the categories: cs.LG, stat.ML.
The research explores the following topic: Automatic machine learning is an important problem in the forefront of machine learning. The strongest AutoML systems are based on neural networks, evolutionary algorithms, and Bayesian optimization. Recently AlphaD3M reached state-of-the-art results with an order of magnitude speedup using reinforcement learning with self-play. In this work we extend AlphaD3M by using a pipeline grammar and a pre-trained model which generalizes from many different datasets and similar tasks. Our results demonstrate improved performance compared with our earlier work and existing methods on AutoML benchmark datasets for classification and regression tasks. In the spirit of reproducible research we make our data, models, and code publicly available.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/1905.10345v1
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/1905.10345v1
