Title: Using Neural Networks for Relation Extraction from Biomedical Literature

Authors: Diana Sousa, Andre Lamurias, Francisco M. Couto

Published: 2019-05-27

Categories: cs.CL, cs.LG, stat.ML

Abstract:
Using different sources of information to support automated extracting of relations between biomedical concepts contributes to the development of our understanding of biological systems. The primary comprehensive source of these relations is biomedical literature. Several relation extraction approaches have been proposed to identify relations between concepts in biomedical literature, namely, using neural networks algorithms. The use of multichannel architectures composed of multiple data representations, as in deep neural networks, is leading to state-of-the-art results. The right combination of data representations can eventually lead us to even higher evaluation scores in relation extraction tasks. Thus, biomedical ontologies play a fundamental role by providing semantic and ancestry information about an entity. The incorporation of biomedical ontologies has already been proved to enhance previous state-of-the-art results.

Paper ID: 1905.11391v2

Summary:
This paper titled "Using Neural Networks for Relation Extraction from Biomedical Literature" was authored by Diana Sousa, Andre Lamurias, Francisco M. Couto and published on 2019-05-27.
It falls under the categories: cs.CL, cs.LG, stat.ML.
The research explores the following topic: Using different sources of information to support automated extracting of relations between biomedical concepts contributes to the development of our understanding of biological systems. The primary comprehensive source of these relations is biomedical literature. Several relation extraction approaches have been proposed to identify relations between concepts in biomedical literature, namely, using neural networks algorithms. The use of multichannel architectures composed of multiple data representations, as in deep neural networks, is leading to state-of-the-art results. The right combination of data representations can eventually lead us to even higher evaluation scores in relation extraction tasks. Thus, biomedical ontologies play a fundamental role by providing semantic and ancestry information about an entity. The incorporation of biomedical ontologies has already been proved to enhance previous state-of-the-art results.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/1905.11391v2
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/1905.11391v2
  - https://doi.org/10.1007/978-1-0716-0826-5_14
