Title: Reproducibility in Machine Learning for Health

Authors: Matthew B. A. McDermott, Shirly Wang, Nikki Marinsek, Rajesh Ranganath, Marzyeh Ghassemi, Luca Foschini

Published: 2019-07-02

Categories: cs.LG, cs.CY, stat.ML

Abstract:
Machine learning algorithms designed to characterize, monitor, and intervene on human health (ML4H) are expected to perform safely and reliably when operating at scale, potentially outside strict human supervision. This requirement warrants a stricter attention to issues of reproducibility than other fields of machine learning.
  In this work, we conduct a systematic evaluation of over 100 recently published ML4H research papers along several dimensions related to reproducibility. We find that the field of ML4H compares poorly to more established machine learning fields, particularly concerning data and code accessibility. Finally, drawing from success in other fields of science, we propose recommendations to data providers, academic publishers, and the ML4H research community in order to promote reproducible research moving forward.

Paper ID: 1907.01463v1

Summary:
This paper titled "Reproducibility in Machine Learning for Health" was authored by Matthew B. A. McDermott, Shirly Wang, Nikki Marinsek, Rajesh Ranganath, Marzyeh Ghassemi, Luca Foschini and published on 2019-07-02.
It falls under the categories: cs.LG, cs.CY, stat.ML.
The research explores the following topic: Machine learning algorithms designed to characterize, monitor, and intervene on human health (ML4H) are expected to perform safely and reliably when operating at scale, potentially outside strict human supervision. This requirement warrants a stricter attention to issues of reproducibility than other fields of machine learning.
  In this work, we conduct a systematic evaluation of over 100 recently published ML4H research papers along several dimensions related to reproducibility. We find that the field of ML4H compares poorly to more established machine learning fields, particularly concerning data and code accessibility. Finally, drawing from success in other fields of science, we propose recommendations to data providers, academic publishers, and the ML4H research community in order to promote reproducible research moving forward.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/1907.01463v1
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/1907.01463v1
