Title: Reinforcement Learning with Chromatic Networks for Compact Architecture Search

Authors: Xingyou Song, Krzysztof Choromanski, Jack Parker-Holder, Yunhao Tang, Wenbo Gao, Aldo Pacchiano, Tamas Sarlos, Deepali Jain, Yuxiang Yang

Published: 2019-07-10

Categories: cs.NE, cs.AI, cs.LG, cs.RO

Abstract:
We present a neural architecture search algorithm to construct compact reinforcement learning (RL) policies, by combining ENAS and ES in a highly scalable and intuitive way. By defining the combinatorial search space of NAS to be the set of different edge-partitionings (colorings) into same-weight classes, we represent compact architectures via efficient learned edge-partitionings. For several RL tasks, we manage to learn colorings translating to effective policies parameterized by as few as $17$ weight parameters, providing >90% compression over vanilla policies and 6x compression over state-of-the-art compact policies based on Toeplitz matrices, while still maintaining good reward. We believe that our work is one of the first attempts to propose a rigorous approach to training structured neural network architectures for RL problems that are of interest especially in mobile robotics with limited storage and computational resources.

Paper ID: 1907.06511v4

Summary:
This paper titled "Reinforcement Learning with Chromatic Networks for Compact Architecture Search" was authored by Xingyou Song, Krzysztof Choromanski, Jack Parker-Holder, Yunhao Tang, Wenbo Gao, Aldo Pacchiano, Tamas Sarlos, Deepali Jain, Yuxiang Yang and published on 2019-07-10.
It falls under the categories: cs.NE, cs.AI, cs.LG, cs.RO.
The research explores the following topic: We present a neural architecture search algorithm to construct compact reinforcement learning (RL) policies, by combining ENAS and ES in a highly scalable and intuitive way. By defining the combinatorial search space of NAS to be the set of different edge-partitionings (colorings) into same-weight classes, we represent compact architectures via efficient learned edge-partitionings. For several RL tasks, we manage to learn colorings translating to effective policies parameterized by as few as $17$ weight parameters, providing >90% compression over vanilla policies and 6x compression over state-of-the-art compact policies based on Toeplitz matrices, while still maintaining good reward. We believe that our work is one of the first attempts to propose a rigorous approach to training structured neural network architectures for RL problems that are of interest especially in mobile robotics with limited storage and computational resources.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/1907.06511v4
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/1907.06511v4
