Title: AutoML: A Survey of the State-of-the-Art

Authors: Xin He, Kaiyong Zhao, Xiaowen Chu

Published: 2019-08-02

Categories: cs.LG, cs.CV, stat.ML

Abstract:
Deep learning (DL) techniques have penetrated all aspects of our lives and brought us great convenience. However, building a high-quality DL system for a specific task highly relies on human expertise, hindering the applications of DL to more areas. Automated machine learning (AutoML) becomes a promising solution to build a DL system without human assistance, and a growing number of researchers focus on AutoML. In this paper, we provide a comprehensive and up-to-date review of the state-of-the-art (SOTA) in AutoML. First, we introduce AutoML methods according to the pipeline, covering data preparation, feature engineering, hyperparameter optimization, and neural architecture search (NAS). We focus more on NAS, as it is currently very hot sub-topic of AutoML. We summarize the performance of the representative NAS algorithms on the CIFAR-10 and ImageNet datasets and further discuss several worthy studying directions of NAS methods: one/two-stage NAS, one-shot NAS, and joint hyperparameter and architecture optimization. Finally, we discuss some open problems of the existing AutoML methods for future research.

Paper ID: 1908.00709v6

Summary:
This paper titled "AutoML: A Survey of the State-of-the-Art" was authored by Xin He, Kaiyong Zhao, Xiaowen Chu and published on 2019-08-02.
It falls under the categories: cs.LG, cs.CV, stat.ML.
The research explores the following topic: Deep learning (DL) techniques have penetrated all aspects of our lives and brought us great convenience. However, building a high-quality DL system for a specific task highly relies on human expertise, hindering the applications of DL to more areas. Automated machine learning (AutoML) becomes a promising solution to build a DL system without human assistance, and a growing number of researchers focus on AutoML. In this paper, we provide a comprehensive and up-to-date review of the state-of-the-art (SOTA) in AutoML. First, we introduce AutoML methods according to the pipeline, covering data preparation, feature engineering, hyperparameter optimization, and neural architecture search (NAS). We focus more on NAS, as it is currently very hot sub-topic of AutoML. We summarize the performance of the representative NAS algorithms on the CIFAR-10 and ImageNet datasets and further discuss several worthy studying directions of NAS methods: one/two-stage NAS, one-shot NAS, and joint hyperparameter and architecture optimization. Finally, we discuss some open problems of the existing AutoML methods for future research.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/1908.00709v6
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/1908.00709v6
  - https://doi.org/10.1016/j.knosys.2020.106622
