Title: Decentralized Federated Learning: A Segmented Gossip Approach

Authors: Chenghao Hu, Jingyan Jiang, Zhi Wang

Published: 2019-08-21

Categories: cs.LG, cs.DC, cs.NI, stat.ML

Abstract:
The emerging concern about data privacy and security has motivated the proposal of federated learning, which allows nodes to only synchronize the locally-trained models instead their own original data. Conventional federated learning architecture, inherited from the parameter server design, relies on highly centralized topologies and the assumption of large nodes-to-server bandwidths. However, in real-world federated learning scenarios the network capacities between nodes are highly uniformly distributed and smaller than that in a datacenter. It is of great challenges for conventional federated learning approaches to efficiently utilize network capacities between nodes. In this paper, we propose a model segment level decentralized federated learning to tackle this problem. In particular, we propose a segmented gossip approach, which not only makes full utilization of node-to-node bandwidth, but also has good training convergence. The experimental results show that even the training time can be highly reduced as compared to centralized federated learning.

Paper ID: 1908.07782v1

Summary:
This paper titled "Decentralized Federated Learning: A Segmented Gossip Approach" was authored by Chenghao Hu, Jingyan Jiang, Zhi Wang and published on 2019-08-21.
It falls under the categories: cs.LG, cs.DC, cs.NI, stat.ML.
The research explores the following topic: The emerging concern about data privacy and security has motivated the proposal of federated learning, which allows nodes to only synchronize the locally-trained models instead their own original data. Conventional federated learning architecture, inherited from the parameter server design, relies on highly centralized topologies and the assumption of large nodes-to-server bandwidths. However, in real-world federated learning scenarios the network capacities between nodes are highly uniformly distributed and smaller than that in a datacenter. It is of great challenges for conventional federated learning approaches to efficiently utilize network capacities between nodes. In this paper, we propose a model segment level decentralized federated learning to tackle this problem. In particular, we propose a segmented gossip approach, which not only makes full utilization of node-to-node bandwidth, but also has good training convergence. The experimental results show that even the training time can be highly reduced as compared to centralized federated learning.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/1908.07782v1
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/1908.07782v1
