Title: WiCV 2019: The Sixth Women In Computer Vision Workshop

Authors: Irene Amerini, Elena Balashova, Sayna Ebrahimi, Kathryn Leonard, Arsha Nagrani, Amaia Salvador

Published: 2019-09-23

Categories: cs.CV

Abstract:
In this paper we present the Women in Computer Vision Workshop - WiCV 2019, organized in conjunction with CVPR 2019. This event is meant for increasing the visibility and inclusion of women researchers in the computer vision field. Computer vision and machine learning have made incredible progress over the past years, but the number of female researchers is still low both in academia and in industry. WiCV is organized especially for the following reason: to raise visibility of female researchers, to increase collaborations between them, and to provide mentorship to female junior researchers in the field. In this paper, we present a report of trends over the past years, along with a summary of statistics regarding presenters, attendees, and sponsorship for the current workshop.

Paper ID: 1909.10225v1

Summary:
This paper titled "WiCV 2019: The Sixth Women In Computer Vision Workshop" was authored by Irene Amerini, Elena Balashova, Sayna Ebrahimi, Kathryn Leonard, Arsha Nagrani, Amaia Salvador and published on 2019-09-23.
It falls under the categories: cs.CV.
The research explores the following topic: In this paper we present the Women in Computer Vision Workshop - WiCV 2019, organized in conjunction with CVPR 2019. This event is meant for increasing the visibility and inclusion of women researchers in the computer vision field. Computer vision and machine learning have made incredible progress over the past years, but the number of female researchers is still low both in academia and in industry. WiCV is organized especially for the following reason: to raise visibility of female researchers, to increase collaborations between them, and to provide mentorship to female junior researchers in the field. In this paper, we present a report of trends over the past years, along with a summary of statistics regarding presenters, attendees, and sponsorship for the current workshop.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/1909.10225v1
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/1909.10225v1
