Title: Spiking Inception Module for Multi-layer Unsupervised Spiking Neural Networks

Authors: Mingyuan Meng, Xingyu Yang, Shanlin Xiao, Zhiyi Yu

Published: 2020-01-29

Categories: cs.NE, cs.LG, q-bio.NC

Abstract:
Spiking Neural Network (SNN), as a brain-inspired approach, is attracting attention due to its potential to produce ultra-high-energy-efficient hardware. Competitive learning based on Spike-Timing-Dependent Plasticity (STDP) is a popular method to train an unsupervised SNN. However, previous unsupervised SNNs trained through this method are limited to a shallow network with only one learnable layer and cannot achieve satisfactory results when compared with multi-layer SNNs. In this paper, we eased this limitation by: 1)We proposed a Spiking Inception (Sp-Inception) module, inspired by the Inception module in the Artificial Neural Network (ANN) literature. This module is trained through STDP-based competitive learning and outperforms the baseline modules on learning capability, learning efficiency, and robustness. 2)We proposed a Pooling-Reshape-Activate (PRA) layer to make the Sp-Inception module stackable. 3)We stacked multiple Sp-Inception modules to construct multi-layer SNNs. Our algorithm outperforms the baseline algorithms on the hand-written digit classification task, and reaches state-of-the-art results on the MNIST dataset among the existing unsupervised SNNs.

Paper ID: 2001.10696v5

Summary:
This paper titled "Spiking Inception Module for Multi-layer Unsupervised Spiking Neural Networks" was authored by Mingyuan Meng, Xingyu Yang, Shanlin Xiao, Zhiyi Yu and published on 2020-01-29.
It falls under the categories: cs.NE, cs.LG, q-bio.NC.
The research explores the following topic: Spiking Neural Network (SNN), as a brain-inspired approach, is attracting attention due to its potential to produce ultra-high-energy-efficient hardware. Competitive learning based on Spike-Timing-Dependent Plasticity (STDP) is a popular method to train an unsupervised SNN. However, previous unsupervised SNNs trained through this method are limited to a shallow network with only one learnable layer and cannot achieve satisfactory results when compared with multi-layer SNNs. In this paper, we eased this limitation by: 1)We proposed a Spiking Inception (Sp-Inception) module, inspired by the Inception module in the Artificial Neural Network (ANN) literature. This module is trained through STDP-based competitive learning and outperforms the baseline modules on learning capability, learning efficiency, and robustness. 2)We proposed a Pooling-Reshape-Activate (PRA) layer to make the Sp-Inception module stackable. 3)We stacked multiple Sp-Inception modules to construct multi-layer SNNs. Our algorithm outperforms the baseline algorithms on the hand-written digit classification task, and reaches state-of-the-art results on the MNIST dataset among the existing unsupervised SNNs.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/2001.10696v5
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/2001.10696v5
  - https://doi.org/10.1109/IJCNN48605.2020.9207161
