Title: A Learning Framework for n-bit Quantized Neural Networks toward FPGAs

Authors: Jun Chen, Liang Liu, Yong Liu, Xianfang Zeng

Published: 2020-04-06

Categories: cs.LG, eess.SP, stat.ML

Abstract:
The quantized neural network (QNN) is an efficient approach for network compression and can be widely used in the implementation of FPGAs. This paper proposes a novel learning framework for n-bit QNNs, whose weights are constrained to the power of two. To solve the gradient vanishing problem, we propose a reconstructed gradient function for QNNs in back-propagation algorithm that can directly get the real gradient rather than estimating an approximate gradient of the expected loss. We also propose a novel QNN structure named n-BQ-NN, which uses shift operation to replace the multiply operation and is more suitable for the inference on FPGAs. Furthermore, we also design a shift vector processing element (SVPE) array to replace all 16-bit multiplications with SHIFT operations in convolution operation on FPGAs. We also carry out comparable experiments to evaluate our framework. The experimental results show that the quantized models of ResNet, DenseNet and AlexNet through our learning framework can achieve almost the same accuracies with the original full-precision models. Moreover, when using our learning framework to train our n-BQ-NN from scratch, it can achieve state-of-the-art results compared with typical low-precision QNNs. Experiments on Xilinx ZCU102 platform show that our n-BQ-NN with our SVPE can execute 2.9 times faster than with the vector processing element (VPE) in inference. As the SHIFT operation in our SVPE array will not consume Digital Signal Processings (DSPs) resources on FPGAs, the experiments have shown that the use of SVPE array also reduces average energy consumption to 68.7% of the VPE array with 16-bit.

Paper ID: 2004.02396v1

Summary:
This paper titled "A Learning Framework for n-bit Quantized Neural Networks toward FPGAs" was authored by Jun Chen, Liang Liu, Yong Liu, Xianfang Zeng and published on 2020-04-06.
It falls under the categories: cs.LG, eess.SP, stat.ML.
The research explores the following topic: The quantized neural network (QNN) is an efficient approach for network compression and can be widely used in the implementation of FPGAs. This paper proposes a novel learning framework for n-bit QNNs, whose weights are constrained to the power of two. To solve the gradient vanishing problem, we propose a reconstructed gradient function for QNNs in back-propagation algorithm that can directly get the real gradient rather than estimating an approximate gradient of the expected loss. We also propose a novel QNN structure named n-BQ-NN, which uses shift operation to replace the multiply operation and is more suitable for the inference on FPGAs. Furthermore, we also design a shift vector processing element (SVPE) array to replace all 16-bit multiplications with SHIFT operations in convolution operation on FPGAs. We also carry out comparable experiments to evaluate our framework. The experimental results show that the quantized models of ResNet, DenseNet and AlexNet through our learning framework can achieve almost the same accuracies with the original full-precision models. Moreover, when using our learning framework to train our n-BQ-NN from scratch, it can achieve state-of-the-art results compared with typical low-precision QNNs. Experiments on Xilinx ZCU102 platform show that our n-BQ-NN with our SVPE can execute 2.9 times faster than with the vector processing element (VPE) in inference. As the SHIFT operation in our SVPE array will not consume Digital Signal Processings (DSPs) resources on FPGAs, the experiments have shown that the use of SVPE array also reduces average energy consumption to 68.7% of the VPE array with 16-bit.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/2004.02396v1
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/2004.02396v1
  - https://doi.org/10.1109/TNNLS.2020.2980041
