Title: Deep Learning for Time Series Forecasting: Tutorial and Literature Survey

Authors: Konstantinos Benidis, Syama Sundar Rangapuram, Valentin Flunkert, Yuyang Wang, Danielle Maddix, Caner Turkmen, Jan Gasthaus, Michael Bohlke-Schneider, David Salinas, Lorenzo Stella, Francois-Xavier Aubet, Laurent Callot, Tim Januschowski

Published: 2020-04-21

Categories: cs.LG, stat.ML

Abstract:
Deep learning based forecasting methods have become the methods of choice in many applications of time series prediction or forecasting often outperforming other approaches. Consequently, over the last years, these methods are now ubiquitous in large-scale industrial forecasting applications and have consistently ranked among the best entries in forecasting competitions (e.g., M4 and M5). This practical success has further increased the academic interest to understand and improve deep forecasting methods. In this article we provide an introduction and overview of the field: We present important building blocks for deep forecasting in some depth; using these building blocks, we then survey the breadth of the recent deep forecasting literature.

Paper ID: 2004.10240v2

Summary:
This paper titled "Deep Learning for Time Series Forecasting: Tutorial and Literature Survey" was authored by Konstantinos Benidis, Syama Sundar Rangapuram, Valentin Flunkert, Yuyang Wang, Danielle Maddix, Caner Turkmen, Jan Gasthaus, Michael Bohlke-Schneider, David Salinas, Lorenzo Stella, Francois-Xavier Aubet, Laurent Callot, Tim Januschowski and published on 2020-04-21.
It falls under the categories: cs.LG, stat.ML.
The research explores the following topic: Deep learning based forecasting methods have become the methods of choice in many applications of time series prediction or forecasting often outperforming other approaches. Consequently, over the last years, these methods are now ubiquitous in large-scale industrial forecasting applications and have consistently ranked among the best entries in forecasting competitions (e.g., M4 and M5). This practical success has further increased the academic interest to understand and improve deep forecasting methods. In this article we provide an introduction and overview of the field: We present important building blocks for deep forecasting in some depth; using these building blocks, we then survey the breadth of the recent deep forecasting literature.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/2004.10240v2
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/2004.10240v2
  - https://doi.org/10.1145/3533382
