Title: Situated Data, Situated Systems: A Methodology to Engage with Power Relations in Natural Language Processing Research

Authors: Lucy Havens, Melissa Terras, Benjamin Bach, Beatrice Alex

Published: 2020-11-11

Categories: cs.CL

Abstract:
We propose a bias-aware methodology to engage with power relations in natural language processing (NLP) research. NLP research rarely engages with bias in social contexts, limiting its ability to mitigate bias. While researchers have recommended actions, technical methods, and documentation practices, no methodology exists to integrate critical reflections on bias with technical NLP methods. In this paper, after an extensive and interdisciplinary literature review, we contribute a bias-aware methodology for NLP research. We also contribute a definition of biased text, a discussion of the implications of biased NLP systems, and a case study demonstrating how we are executing the bias-aware methodology in research on archival metadata descriptions.

Paper ID: 2011.05911v1

Summary:
This paper titled "Situated Data, Situated Systems: A Methodology to Engage with Power Relations in Natural Language Processing Research" was authored by Lucy Havens, Melissa Terras, Benjamin Bach, Beatrice Alex and published on 2020-11-11.
It falls under the categories: cs.CL.
The research explores the following topic: We propose a bias-aware methodology to engage with power relations in natural language processing (NLP) research. NLP research rarely engages with bias in social contexts, limiting its ability to mitigate bias. While researchers have recommended actions, technical methods, and documentation practices, no methodology exists to integrate critical reflections on bias with technical NLP methods. In this paper, after an extensive and interdisciplinary literature review, we contribute a bias-aware methodology for NLP research. We also contribute a definition of biased text, a discussion of the implications of biased NLP systems, and a case study demonstrating how we are executing the bias-aware methodology in research on archival metadata descriptions.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/2011.05911v1
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/2011.05911v1
