Title: Multi-modal Trajectory Prediction for Autonomous Driving with Semantic Map and Dynamic Graph Attention Network

Authors: Bo Dong, Hao Liu, Yu Bai, Jinbiao Lin, Zhuoran Xu, Xinyu Xu, Qi Kong

Published: 2021-03-30

Categories: cs.CV, cs.RO

Abstract:
Predicting future trajectories of surrounding obstacles is a crucial task for autonomous driving cars to achieve a high degree of road safety. There are several challenges in trajectory prediction in real-world traffic scenarios, including obeying traffic rules, dealing with social interactions, handling traffic of multi-class movement, and predicting multi-modal trajectories with probability. Inspired by people's natural habit of navigating traffic with attention to their goals and surroundings, this paper presents a unique dynamic graph attention network to solve all those challenges. The network is designed to model the dynamic social interactions among agents and conform to traffic rules with a semantic map. By extending the anchor-based method to multiple types of agents, the proposed method can predict multi-modal trajectories with probabilities for multi-class movements using a single model. We validate our approach on the proprietary autonomous driving dataset for the logistic delivery scenario and two publicly available datasets. The results show that our method outperforms state-of-the-art techniques and demonstrates the potential for trajectory prediction in real-world traffic.

Paper ID: 2103.16273v1

Summary:
This paper titled "Multi-modal Trajectory Prediction for Autonomous Driving with Semantic Map and Dynamic Graph Attention Network" was authored by Bo Dong, Hao Liu, Yu Bai, Jinbiao Lin, Zhuoran Xu, Xinyu Xu, Qi Kong and published on 2021-03-30.
It falls under the categories: cs.CV, cs.RO.
The research explores the following topic: Predicting future trajectories of surrounding obstacles is a crucial task for autonomous driving cars to achieve a high degree of road safety. There are several challenges in trajectory prediction in real-world traffic scenarios, including obeying traffic rules, dealing with social interactions, handling traffic of multi-class movement, and predicting multi-modal trajectories with probability. Inspired by people's natural habit of navigating traffic with attention to their goals and surroundings, this paper presents a unique dynamic graph attention network to solve all those challenges. The network is designed to model the dynamic social interactions among agents and conform to traffic rules with a semantic map. By extending the anchor-based method to multiple types of agents, the proposed method can predict multi-modal trajectories with probabilities for multi-class movements using a single model. We validate our approach on the proprietary autonomous driving dataset for the logistic delivery scenario and two publicly available datasets. The results show that our method outperforms state-of-the-art techniques and demonstrates the potential for trajectory prediction in real-world traffic.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/2103.16273v1
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/2103.16273v1
