Title: Lexical Access Model for Italian -- Modeling human speech processing: identification of words in running speech toward lexical access based on the detection of landmarks and other acoustic cues to features

Authors: Maria-Gabriella Di Benedetto, Stefanie Shattuck-Hufnagel, Jeung-Yoon Choi, Luca De Nardis, Javier Arango, Ian Chan, Alec DeCaprio

Published: 2021-06-24

Categories: eess.AS, cs.CL, cs.SD

Abstract:
Modelling the process that a listener actuates in deriving the words intended by a speaker requires setting a hypothesis on how lexical items are stored in memory. This work aims at developing a system that imitates humans when identifying words in running speech and, in this way, provide a framework to better understand human speech processing. We build a speech recognizer for Italian based on the principles of Stevens' model of Lexical Access in which words are stored as hierarchical arrangements of distinctive features (Stevens, K. N. (2002). "Toward a model for lexical access based on acoustic landmarks and distinctive features," J. Acoust. Soc. Am., 111(4):1872-1891). Over the past few decades, the Speech Communication Group at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) developed a speech recognition system for English based on this approach. Italian will be the first language beyond English to be explored; the extension to another language provides the opportunity to test the hypothesis that words are represented in memory as a set of hierarchically-arranged distinctive features, and reveal which of the underlying mechanisms may have a language-independent nature. This paper also introduces a new Lexical Access corpus, the LaMIT database, created and labeled specifically for this work, that will be provided freely to the speech research community. Future developments will test the hypothesis that specific acoustic discontinuities - called landmarks - that serve as cues to features, are language independent, while other cues may be language-dependent, with powerful implications for understanding how the human brain recognizes speech.

Paper ID: 2107.02720v1

Summary:
This paper titled "Lexical Access Model for Italian -- Modeling human speech processing: identification of words in running speech toward lexical access based on the detection of landmarks and other acoustic cues to features" was authored by Maria-Gabriella Di Benedetto, Stefanie Shattuck-Hufnagel, Jeung-Yoon Choi, Luca De Nardis, Javier Arango, Ian Chan, Alec DeCaprio and published on 2021-06-24.
It falls under the categories: eess.AS, cs.CL, cs.SD.
The research explores the following topic: Modelling the process that a listener actuates in deriving the words intended by a speaker requires setting a hypothesis on how lexical items are stored in memory. This work aims at developing a system that imitates humans when identifying words in running speech and, in this way, provide a framework to better understand human speech processing. We build a speech recognizer for Italian based on the principles of Stevens' model of Lexical Access in which words are stored as hierarchical arrangements of distinctive features (Stevens, K. N. (2002). "Toward a model for lexical access based on acoustic landmarks and distinctive features," J. Acoust. Soc. Am., 111(4):1872-1891). Over the past few decades, the Speech Communication Group at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT) developed a speech recognition system for English based on this approach. Italian will be the first language beyond English to be explored; the extension to another language provides the opportunity to test the hypothesis that words are represented in memory as a set of hierarchically-arranged distinctive features, and reveal which of the underlying mechanisms may have a language-independent nature. This paper also introduces a new Lexical Access corpus, the LaMIT database, created and labeled specifically for this work, that will be provided freely to the speech research community. Future developments will test the hypothesis that specific acoustic discontinuities - called landmarks - that serve as cues to features, are language independent, while other cues may be language-dependent, with powerful implications for understanding how the human brain recognizes speech.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/2107.02720v1
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/2107.02720v1
