Title: Generating Answer Candidates for Quizzes and Answer-Aware Question Generators

Authors: Kristiyan Vachev, Momchil Hardalov, Georgi Karadzhov, Georgi Georgiev, Ivan Koychev, Preslav Nakov

Published: 2021-08-29

Categories: cs.CL, cs.AI, cs.CY, cs.IR, cs.LG

Abstract:
In education, open-ended quiz questions have become an important tool for assessing the knowledge of students. Yet, manually preparing such questions is a tedious task, and thus automatic question generation has been proposed as a possible alternative. So far, the vast majority of research has focused on generating the question text, relying on question answering datasets with readily picked answers, and the problem of how to come up with answer candidates in the first place has been largely ignored. Here, we aim to bridge this gap. In particular, we propose a model that can generate a specified number of answer candidates for a given passage of text, which can then be used by instructors to write questions manually or can be passed as an input to automatic answer-aware question generators. Our experiments show that our proposed answer candidate generation model outperforms several baselines.

Paper ID: 2108.12898v1

Summary:
This paper titled "Generating Answer Candidates for Quizzes and Answer-Aware Question Generators" was authored by Kristiyan Vachev, Momchil Hardalov, Georgi Karadzhov, Georgi Georgiev, Ivan Koychev, Preslav Nakov and published on 2021-08-29.
It falls under the categories: cs.CL, cs.AI, cs.CY, cs.IR, cs.LG.
The research explores the following topic: In education, open-ended quiz questions have become an important tool for assessing the knowledge of students. Yet, manually preparing such questions is a tedious task, and thus automatic question generation has been proposed as a possible alternative. So far, the vast majority of research has focused on generating the question text, relying on question answering datasets with readily picked answers, and the problem of how to come up with answer candidates in the first place has been largely ignored. Here, we aim to bridge this gap. In particular, we propose a model that can generate a specified number of answer candidates for a given passage of text, which can then be used by instructors to write questions manually or can be passed as an input to automatic answer-aware question generators. Our experiments show that our proposed answer candidate generation model outperforms several baselines.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/2108.12898v1
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/2108.12898v1
