Title: Text as Causal Mediators: Research Design for Causal Estimates of Differential Treatment of Social Groups via Language Aspects

Authors: Katherine A. Keith, Douglas Rice, Brendan O'Connor

Published: 2021-09-15

Categories: cs.CL

Abstract:
Using observed language to understand interpersonal interactions is important in high-stakes decision making. We propose a causal research design for observational (non-experimental) data to estimate the natural direct and indirect effects of social group signals (e.g. race or gender) on speakers' responses with separate aspects of language as causal mediators. We illustrate the promises and challenges of this framework via a theoretical case study of the effect of an advocate's gender on interruptions from justices during U.S. Supreme Court oral arguments. We also discuss challenges conceptualizing and operationalizing causal variables such as gender and language that comprise of many components, and we articulate technical open challenges such as temporal dependence between language mediators in conversational settings.

Paper ID: 2109.07542v1

Summary:
This paper titled "Text as Causal Mediators: Research Design for Causal Estimates of Differential Treatment of Social Groups via Language Aspects" was authored by Katherine A. Keith, Douglas Rice, Brendan O'Connor and published on 2021-09-15.
It falls under the categories: cs.CL.
The research explores the following topic: Using observed language to understand interpersonal interactions is important in high-stakes decision making. We propose a causal research design for observational (non-experimental) data to estimate the natural direct and indirect effects of social group signals (e.g. race or gender) on speakers' responses with separate aspects of language as causal mediators. We illustrate the promises and challenges of this framework via a theoretical case study of the effect of an advocate's gender on interruptions from justices during U.S. Supreme Court oral arguments. We also discuss challenges conceptualizing and operationalizing causal variables such as gender and language that comprise of many components, and we articulate technical open challenges such as temporal dependence between language mediators in conversational settings.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/2109.07542v1
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/2109.07542v1
