Title: Blended Diffusion for Text-driven Editing of Natural Images

Authors: Omri Avrahami, Dani Lischinski, Ohad Fried

Published: 2021-11-29

Categories: cs.CV, cs.GR, cs.LG

Abstract:
Natural language offers a highly intuitive interface for image editing. In this paper, we introduce the first solution for performing local (region-based) edits in generic natural images, based on a natural language description along with an ROI mask. We achieve our goal by leveraging and combining a pretrained language-image model (CLIP), to steer the edit towards a user-provided text prompt, with a denoising diffusion probabilistic model (DDPM) to generate natural-looking results. To seamlessly fuse the edited region with the unchanged parts of the image, we spatially blend noised versions of the input image with the local text-guided diffusion latent at a progression of noise levels. In addition, we show that adding augmentations to the diffusion process mitigates adversarial results. We compare against several baselines and related methods, both qualitatively and quantitatively, and show that our method outperforms these solutions in terms of overall realism, ability to preserve the background and matching the text. Finally, we show several text-driven editing applications, including adding a new object to an image, removing/replacing/altering existing objects, background replacement, and image extrapolation. Code is available at: https://omriavrahami.com/blended-diffusion-page/

Paper ID: 2111.14818v2

Summary:
This paper titled "Blended Diffusion for Text-driven Editing of Natural Images" was authored by Omri Avrahami, Dani Lischinski, Ohad Fried and published on 2021-11-29.
It falls under the categories: cs.CV, cs.GR, cs.LG.
The research explores the following topic: Natural language offers a highly intuitive interface for image editing. In this paper, we introduce the first solution for performing local (region-based) edits in generic natural images, based on a natural language description along with an ROI mask. We achieve our goal by leveraging and combining a pretrained language-image model (CLIP), to steer the edit towards a user-provided text prompt, with a denoising diffusion probabilistic model (DDPM) to generate natural-looking results. To seamlessly fuse the edited region with the unchanged parts of the image, we spatially blend noised versions of the input image with the local text-guided diffusion latent at a progression of noise levels. In addition, we show that adding augmentations to the diffusion process mitigates adversarial results. We compare against several baselines and related methods, both qualitatively and quantitatively, and show that our method outperforms these solutions in terms of overall realism, ability to preserve the background and matching the text. Finally, we show several text-driven editing applications, including adding a new object to an image, removing/replacing/altering existing objects, background replacement, and image extrapolation. Code is available at: https://omriavrahami.com/blended-diffusion-page/

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/2111.14818v2
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/2111.14818v2
  - https://doi.org/10.1109/CVPR52688.2022.01767
