Title: Long Story Short: Omitted Variable Bias in Causal Machine Learning

Authors: Victor Chernozhukov, Carlos Cinelli, Whitney Newey, Amit Sharma, Vasilis Syrgkanis

Published: 2021-12-26

Categories: econ.EM, cs.LG, stat.ME, stat.ML

Abstract:
We develop a general theory of omitted variable bias for a wide range of common causal parameters, including (but not limited to) averages of potential outcomes, average treatment effects, average causal derivatives, and policy effects from covariate shifts. Our theory applies to nonparametric models, while naturally allowing for (semi-)parametric restrictions (such as partial linearity) when such assumptions are made. We show how simple plausibility judgments on the maximum explanatory power of omitted variables are sufficient to bound the magnitude of the bias, thus facilitating sensitivity analysis in otherwise complex, nonlinear models. Finally, we provide flexible and efficient statistical inference methods for the bounds, which can leverage modern machine learning algorithms for estimation. These results allow empirical researchers to perform sensitivity analyses in a flexible class of machine-learned causal models using very simple, and interpretable, tools. We demonstrate the utility of our approach with two empirical examples.

Paper ID: 2112.13398v5

Summary:
This paper titled "Long Story Short: Omitted Variable Bias in Causal Machine Learning" was authored by Victor Chernozhukov, Carlos Cinelli, Whitney Newey, Amit Sharma, Vasilis Syrgkanis and published on 2021-12-26.
It falls under the categories: econ.EM, cs.LG, stat.ME, stat.ML.
The research explores the following topic: We develop a general theory of omitted variable bias for a wide range of common causal parameters, including (but not limited to) averages of potential outcomes, average treatment effects, average causal derivatives, and policy effects from covariate shifts. Our theory applies to nonparametric models, while naturally allowing for (semi-)parametric restrictions (such as partial linearity) when such assumptions are made. We show how simple plausibility judgments on the maximum explanatory power of omitted variables are sufficient to bound the magnitude of the bias, thus facilitating sensitivity analysis in otherwise complex, nonlinear models. Finally, we provide flexible and efficient statistical inference methods for the bounds, which can leverage modern machine learning algorithms for estimation. These results allow empirical researchers to perform sensitivity analyses in a flexible class of machine-learned causal models using very simple, and interpretable, tools. We demonstrate the utility of our approach with two empirical examples.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/2112.13398v5
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/2112.13398v5
