Title: PseudoProp: Robust Pseudo-Label Generation for Semi-Supervised Object Detection in Autonomous Driving Systems

Authors: Shu Hu, Chun-Hao Liu, Jayanta Dutta, Ming-Ching Chang, Siwei Lyu, Naveen Ramakrishnan

Published: 2022-03-11

Categories: cs.CV

Abstract:
Semi-supervised object detection methods are widely used in autonomous driving systems, where only a fraction of objects are labeled. To propagate information from the labeled objects to the unlabeled ones, pseudo-labels for unlabeled objects must be generated. Although pseudo-labels have proven to improve the performance of semi-supervised object detection significantly, the applications of image-based methods to video frames result in numerous miss or false detections using such generated pseudo-labels. In this paper, we propose a new approach, PseudoProp, to generate robust pseudo-labels by leveraging motion continuity in video frames. Specifically, PseudoProp uses a novel bidirectional pseudo-label propagation approach to compensate for misdetection. A feature-based fusion technique is also used to suppress inference noise. Extensive experiments on the large-scale Cityscapes dataset demonstrate that our method outperforms the state-of-the-art semi-supervised object detection methods by 7.4% on mAP75.

Paper ID: 2203.05983v2

Summary:
This paper titled "PseudoProp: Robust Pseudo-Label Generation for Semi-Supervised Object Detection in Autonomous Driving Systems" was authored by Shu Hu, Chun-Hao Liu, Jayanta Dutta, Ming-Ching Chang, Siwei Lyu, Naveen Ramakrishnan and published on 2022-03-11.
It falls under the categories: cs.CV.
The research explores the following topic: Semi-supervised object detection methods are widely used in autonomous driving systems, where only a fraction of objects are labeled. To propagate information from the labeled objects to the unlabeled ones, pseudo-labels for unlabeled objects must be generated. Although pseudo-labels have proven to improve the performance of semi-supervised object detection significantly, the applications of image-based methods to video frames result in numerous miss or false detections using such generated pseudo-labels. In this paper, we propose a new approach, PseudoProp, to generate robust pseudo-labels by leveraging motion continuity in video frames. Specifically, PseudoProp uses a novel bidirectional pseudo-label propagation approach to compensate for misdetection. A feature-based fusion technique is also used to suppress inference noise. Extensive experiments on the large-scale Cityscapes dataset demonstrate that our method outperforms the state-of-the-art semi-supervised object detection methods by 7.4% on mAP75.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/2203.05983v2
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/2203.05983v2
