Title: Multi-Task Retrieval-Augmented Text Generation with Relevance Sampling

Authors: Sebastian Hofstätter, Jiecao Chen, Karthik Raman, Hamed Zamani

Published: 2022-07-07

Categories: cs.CL, cs.IR

Abstract:
This paper studies multi-task training of retrieval-augmented generation models for knowledge-intensive tasks. We propose to clean the training set by utilizing a distinct property of knowledge-intensive generation: The connection of query-answer pairs to items in the knowledge base. We filter training examples via a threshold of confidence on the relevance labels, whether a pair is answerable by the knowledge base or not. We train a single Fusion-in-Decoder (FiD) generator on seven combined tasks of the KILT benchmark. The experimental results suggest that our simple yet effective approach substantially improves competitive baselines on two strongly imbalanced tasks; and shows either smaller improvements or no significant regression on the remaining tasks. Furthermore, we demonstrate our multi-task training with relevance label sampling scales well with increased model capacity and achieves state-of-the-art results in five out of seven KILT tasks.

Paper ID: 2207.03030v1

Summary:
This paper titled "Multi-Task Retrieval-Augmented Text Generation with Relevance Sampling" was authored by Sebastian Hofstätter, Jiecao Chen, Karthik Raman, Hamed Zamani and published on 2022-07-07.
It falls under the categories: cs.CL, cs.IR.
The research explores the following topic: This paper studies multi-task training of retrieval-augmented generation models for knowledge-intensive tasks. We propose to clean the training set by utilizing a distinct property of knowledge-intensive generation: The connection of query-answer pairs to items in the knowledge base. We filter training examples via a threshold of confidence on the relevance labels, whether a pair is answerable by the knowledge base or not. We train a single Fusion-in-Decoder (FiD) generator on seven combined tasks of the KILT benchmark. The experimental results suggest that our simple yet effective approach substantially improves competitive baselines on two strongly imbalanced tasks; and shows either smaller improvements or no significant regression on the remaining tasks. Furthermore, we demonstrate our multi-task training with relevance label sampling scales well with increased model capacity and achieves state-of-the-art results in five out of seven KILT tasks.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/2207.03030v1
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/2207.03030v1
