Title: Vision-Language Pre-training: Basics, Recent Advances, and Future Trends

Authors: Zhe Gan, Linjie Li, Chunyuan Li, Lijuan Wang, Zicheng Liu, Jianfeng Gao

Published: 2022-10-17

Categories: cs.CV, cs.CL

Abstract:
This paper surveys vision-language pre-training (VLP) methods for multimodal intelligence that have been developed in the last few years. We group these approaches into three categories: ($i$) VLP for image-text tasks, such as image captioning, image-text retrieval, visual question answering, and visual grounding; ($ii$) VLP for core computer vision tasks, such as (open-set) image classification, object detection, and segmentation; and ($iii$) VLP for video-text tasks, such as video captioning, video-text retrieval, and video question answering. For each category, we present a comprehensive review of state-of-the-art methods, and discuss the progress that has been made and challenges still being faced, using specific systems and models as case studies. In addition, for each category, we discuss advanced topics being actively explored in the research community, such as big foundation models, unified modeling, in-context few-shot learning, knowledge, robustness, and computer vision in the wild, to name a few.

Paper ID: 2210.09263v1

Summary:
This paper titled "Vision-Language Pre-training: Basics, Recent Advances, and Future Trends" was authored by Zhe Gan, Linjie Li, Chunyuan Li, Lijuan Wang, Zicheng Liu, Jianfeng Gao and published on 2022-10-17.
It falls under the categories: cs.CV, cs.CL.
The research explores the following topic: This paper surveys vision-language pre-training (VLP) methods for multimodal intelligence that have been developed in the last few years. We group these approaches into three categories: ($i$) VLP for image-text tasks, such as image captioning, image-text retrieval, visual question answering, and visual grounding; ($ii$) VLP for core computer vision tasks, such as (open-set) image classification, object detection, and segmentation; and ($iii$) VLP for video-text tasks, such as video captioning, video-text retrieval, and video question answering. For each category, we present a comprehensive review of state-of-the-art methods, and discuss the progress that has been made and challenges still being faced, using specific systems and models as case studies. In addition, for each category, we discuss advanced topics being actively explored in the research community, such as big foundation models, unified modeling, in-context few-shot learning, knowledge, robustness, and computer vision in the wild, to name a few.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/2210.09263v1
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/2210.09263v1
