Title: Shifted Diffusion for Text-to-image Generation

Authors: Yufan Zhou, Bingchen Liu, Yizhe Zhu, Xiao Yang, Changyou Chen, Jinhui Xu

Published: 2022-11-24

Categories: cs.CV, cs.AI, cs.LG

Abstract:
We present Corgi, a novel method for text-to-image generation. Corgi is based on our proposed shifted diffusion model, which achieves better image embedding generation from input text. Unlike the baseline diffusion model used in DALL-E 2, our method seamlessly encodes prior knowledge of the pre-trained CLIP model in its diffusion process by designing a new initialization distribution and a new transition step of the diffusion. Compared to the strong DALL-E 2 baseline, our method performs better in generating image embedding from the text in terms of both efficiency and effectiveness, resulting in better text-to-image generation. Extensive large-scale experiments are conducted and evaluated in terms of both quantitative measures and human evaluation, indicating a stronger generation ability of our method compared to existing ones. Furthermore, our model enables semi-supervised and language-free training for text-to-image generation, where only part or none of the images in the training dataset have an associated caption. Trained with only 1.7% of the images being captioned, our semi-supervised model obtains FID results comparable to DALL-E 2 on zero-shot text-to-image generation evaluated on MS-COCO. Corgi also achieves new state-of-the-art results across different datasets on downstream language-free text-to-image generation tasks, outperforming the previous method, Lafite, by a large margin.

Paper ID: 2211.15388v2

Summary:
This paper titled "Shifted Diffusion for Text-to-image Generation" was authored by Yufan Zhou, Bingchen Liu, Yizhe Zhu, Xiao Yang, Changyou Chen, Jinhui Xu and published on 2022-11-24.
It falls under the categories: cs.CV, cs.AI, cs.LG.
The research explores the following topic: We present Corgi, a novel method for text-to-image generation. Corgi is based on our proposed shifted diffusion model, which achieves better image embedding generation from input text. Unlike the baseline diffusion model used in DALL-E 2, our method seamlessly encodes prior knowledge of the pre-trained CLIP model in its diffusion process by designing a new initialization distribution and a new transition step of the diffusion. Compared to the strong DALL-E 2 baseline, our method performs better in generating image embedding from the text in terms of both efficiency and effectiveness, resulting in better text-to-image generation. Extensive large-scale experiments are conducted and evaluated in terms of both quantitative measures and human evaluation, indicating a stronger generation ability of our method compared to existing ones. Furthermore, our model enables semi-supervised and language-free training for text-to-image generation, where only part or none of the images in the training dataset have an associated caption. Trained with only 1.7% of the images being captioned, our semi-supervised model obtains FID results comparable to DALL-E 2 on zero-shot text-to-image generation evaluated on MS-COCO. Corgi also achieves new state-of-the-art results across different datasets on downstream language-free text-to-image generation tasks, outperforming the previous method, Lafite, by a large margin.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/2211.15388v2
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/2211.15388v2
