Title: Deep Learning and Computational Physics (Lecture Notes)

Authors: Deep Ray, Orazio Pinti, Assad A. Oberai

Published: 2023-01-03

Categories: cs.LG, math-ph

Abstract:
These notes were compiled as lecture notes for a course developed and taught at the University of the Southern California. They should be accessible to a typical engineering graduate student with a strong background in Applied Mathematics.
  The main objective of these notes is to introduce a student who is familiar with concepts in linear algebra and partial differential equations to select topics in deep learning. These lecture notes exploit the strong connections between deep learning algorithms and the more conventional techniques of computational physics to achieve two goals. First, they use concepts from computational physics to develop an understanding of deep learning algorithms. Not surprisingly, many concepts in deep learning can be connected to similar concepts in computational physics, and one can utilize this connection to better understand these algorithms. Second, several novel deep learning algorithms can be used to solve challenging problems in computational physics. Thus, they offer someone who is interested in modeling a physical phenomena with a complementary set of tools.

Paper ID: 2301.00942v1

Summary:
This paper titled "Deep Learning and Computational Physics (Lecture Notes)" was authored by Deep Ray, Orazio Pinti, Assad A. Oberai and published on 2023-01-03.
It falls under the categories: cs.LG, math-ph.
The research explores the following topic: These notes were compiled as lecture notes for a course developed and taught at the University of the Southern California. They should be accessible to a typical engineering graduate student with a strong background in Applied Mathematics.
  The main objective of these notes is to introduce a student who is familiar with concepts in linear algebra and partial differential equations to select topics in deep learning. These lecture notes exploit the strong connections between deep learning algorithms and the more conventional techniques of computational physics to achieve two goals. First, they use concepts from computational physics to develop an understanding of deep learning algorithms. Not surprisingly, many concepts in deep learning can be connected to similar concepts in computational physics, and one can utilize this connection to better understand these algorithms. Second, several novel deep learning algorithms can be used to solve challenging problems in computational physics. Thus, they offer someone who is interested in modeling a physical phenomena with a complementary set of tools.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/2301.00942v1
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/2301.00942v1
