Title: Oriented object detection in optical remote sensing images using deep learning: a survey

Authors: Kun Wang, Zi Wang, Zhang Li, Ang Su, Xichao Teng, Erting Pan, Minhao Liu, Qifeng Yu

Published: 2023-02-21

Categories: cs.CV

Abstract:
Oriented object detection is a fundamental yet challenging task in remote sensing (RS), aiming to locate and classify objects with arbitrary orientations. Recent advancements in deep learning have significantly enhanced the capabilities of oriented object detection methods. Given the rapid development of this field, a comprehensive survey of the recent advances in oriented object detection is presented in this paper. Specifically, we begin by tracing the technical evolution from horizontal object detection to oriented object detection and highlighting the specific related challenges, including feature misalignment, spatial misalignment, oriented bounding box (OBB) regression problems, and common issues encountered in RS. Subsequently, we further categorize the existing methods into detection frameworks, OBB regression techniques, feature representation approaches, and solutions to common issues and provide an in-depth discussion of how these methods address the above challenges. In addition, we cover several publicly available datasets and evaluation protocols. Furthermore, we provide a comprehensive comparison and analysis involving the state-of-the-art methods. Toward the end of this paper, we identify several future directions for oriented object detection research.

Paper ID: 2302.10473v6

Summary:
This paper titled "Oriented object detection in optical remote sensing images using deep learning: a survey" was authored by Kun Wang, Zi Wang, Zhang Li, Ang Su, Xichao Teng, Erting Pan, Minhao Liu, Qifeng Yu and published on 2023-02-21.
It falls under the categories: cs.CV.
The research explores the following topic: Oriented object detection is a fundamental yet challenging task in remote sensing (RS), aiming to locate and classify objects with arbitrary orientations. Recent advancements in deep learning have significantly enhanced the capabilities of oriented object detection methods. Given the rapid development of this field, a comprehensive survey of the recent advances in oriented object detection is presented in this paper. Specifically, we begin by tracing the technical evolution from horizontal object detection to oriented object detection and highlighting the specific related challenges, including feature misalignment, spatial misalignment, oriented bounding box (OBB) regression problems, and common issues encountered in RS. Subsequently, we further categorize the existing methods into detection frameworks, OBB regression techniques, feature representation approaches, and solutions to common issues and provide an in-depth discussion of how these methods address the above challenges. In addition, we cover several publicly available datasets and evaluation protocols. Furthermore, we provide a comprehensive comparison and analysis involving the state-of-the-art methods. Toward the end of this paper, we identify several future directions for oriented object detection research.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/2302.10473v6
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/2302.10473v6
  - https://doi.org/10.1007/s10462-025-11256-0
