Title: Text-to-image Diffusion Models in Generative AI: A Survey

Authors: Chenshuang Zhang, Chaoning Zhang, Mengchun Zhang, In So Kweon, Junmo Kim

Published: 2023-03-14

Categories: cs.CV, cs.AI, cs.LG

Abstract:
This survey reviews the progress of diffusion models in generating images from text, ~\textit{i.e.} text-to-image diffusion models. As a self-contained work, this survey starts with a brief introduction of how diffusion models work for image synthesis, followed by the background for text-conditioned image synthesis. Based on that, we present an organized review of pioneering methods and their improvements on text-to-image generation. We further summarize applications beyond image generation, such as text-guided generation for various modalities like videos, and text-guided image editing. Beyond the progress made so far, we discuss existing challenges and promising future directions.

Paper ID: 2303.07909v3

Summary:
This paper titled "Text-to-image Diffusion Models in Generative AI: A Survey" was authored by Chenshuang Zhang, Chaoning Zhang, Mengchun Zhang, In So Kweon, Junmo Kim and published on 2023-03-14.
It falls under the categories: cs.CV, cs.AI, cs.LG.
The research explores the following topic: This survey reviews the progress of diffusion models in generating images from text, ~\textit{i.e.} text-to-image diffusion models. As a self-contained work, this survey starts with a brief introduction of how diffusion models work for image synthesis, followed by the background for text-conditioned image synthesis. Based on that, we present an organized review of pioneering methods and their improvements on text-to-image generation. We further summarize applications beyond image generation, such as text-guided generation for various modalities like videos, and text-guided image editing. Beyond the progress made so far, we discuss existing challenges and promising future directions.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/2303.07909v3
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/2303.07909v3
