Title: Exploring the Landscape of Natural Language Processing Research

Authors: Tim Schopf, Karim Arabi, Florian Matthes

Published: 2023-07-20

Categories: cs.CL

Abstract:
As an efficient approach to understand, generate, and process natural language texts, research in natural language processing (NLP) has exhibited a rapid spread and wide adoption in recent years. Given the increasing research work in this area, several NLP-related approaches have been surveyed in the research community. However, a comprehensive study that categorizes established topics, identifies trends, and outlines areas for future research remains absent. Contributing to closing this gap, we have systematically classified and analyzed research papers in the ACL Anthology. As a result, we present a structured overview of the research landscape, provide a taxonomy of fields of study in NLP, analyze recent developments in NLP, summarize our findings, and highlight directions for future work.

Paper ID: 2307.10652v5

Summary:
This paper titled "Exploring the Landscape of Natural Language Processing Research" was authored by Tim Schopf, Karim Arabi, Florian Matthes and published on 2023-07-20.
It falls under the categories: cs.CL.
The research explores the following topic: As an efficient approach to understand, generate, and process natural language texts, research in natural language processing (NLP) has exhibited a rapid spread and wide adoption in recent years. Given the increasing research work in this area, several NLP-related approaches have been surveyed in the research community. However, a comprehensive study that categorizes established topics, identifies trends, and outlines areas for future research remains absent. Contributing to closing this gap, we have systematically classified and analyzed research papers in the ACL Anthology. As a result, we present a structured overview of the research landscape, provide a taxonomy of fields of study in NLP, analyze recent developments in NLP, summarize our findings, and highlight directions for future work.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.10652v5
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.10652v5
  - https://doi.org/10.26615/978-954-452-092-2_111
