Title: Tackling the Curse of Dimensionality with Physics-Informed Neural Networks

Authors: Zheyuan Hu, Khemraj Shukla, George Em Karniadakis, Kenji Kawaguchi

Published: 2023-07-23

Categories: cs.LG, cs.AI, math.DS, math.NA, stat.ML

Abstract:
The curse-of-dimensionality taxes computational resources heavily with exponentially increasing computational cost as the dimension increases. This poses great challenges in solving high-dimensional PDEs, as Richard E. Bellman first pointed out over 60 years ago. While there has been some recent success in solving numerically partial differential equations (PDEs) in high dimensions, such computations are prohibitively expensive, and true scaling of general nonlinear PDEs to high dimensions has never been achieved. We develop a new method of scaling up physics-informed neural networks (PINNs) to solve arbitrary high-dimensional PDEs. The new method, called Stochastic Dimension Gradient Descent (SDGD), decomposes a gradient of PDEs into pieces corresponding to different dimensions and randomly samples a subset of these dimensional pieces in each iteration of training PINNs. We prove theoretically the convergence and other desired properties of the proposed method. We demonstrate in various diverse tests that the proposed method can solve many notoriously hard high-dimensional PDEs, including the Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman (HJB) and the Schrödinger equations in tens of thousands of dimensions very fast on a single GPU using the PINNs mesh-free approach. Notably, we solve nonlinear PDEs with nontrivial, anisotropic, and inseparable solutions in 100,000 effective dimensions in 12 hours on a single GPU using SDGD with PINNs. Since SDGD is a general training methodology of PINNs, it can be applied to any current and future variants of PINNs to scale them up for arbitrary high-dimensional PDEs.

Paper ID: 2307.12306v6

Summary:
This paper titled "Tackling the Curse of Dimensionality with Physics-Informed Neural Networks" was authored by Zheyuan Hu, Khemraj Shukla, George Em Karniadakis, Kenji Kawaguchi and published on 2023-07-23.
It falls under the categories: cs.LG, cs.AI, math.DS, math.NA, stat.ML.
The research explores the following topic: The curse-of-dimensionality taxes computational resources heavily with exponentially increasing computational cost as the dimension increases. This poses great challenges in solving high-dimensional PDEs, as Richard E. Bellman first pointed out over 60 years ago. While there has been some recent success in solving numerically partial differential equations (PDEs) in high dimensions, such computations are prohibitively expensive, and true scaling of general nonlinear PDEs to high dimensions has never been achieved. We develop a new method of scaling up physics-informed neural networks (PINNs) to solve arbitrary high-dimensional PDEs. The new method, called Stochastic Dimension Gradient Descent (SDGD), decomposes a gradient of PDEs into pieces corresponding to different dimensions and randomly samples a subset of these dimensional pieces in each iteration of training PINNs. We prove theoretically the convergence and other desired properties of the proposed method. We demonstrate in various diverse tests that the proposed method can solve many notoriously hard high-dimensional PDEs, including the Hamilton-Jacobi-Bellman (HJB) and the Schrödinger equations in tens of thousands of dimensions very fast on a single GPU using the PINNs mesh-free approach. Notably, we solve nonlinear PDEs with nontrivial, anisotropic, and inseparable solutions in 100,000 effective dimensions in 12 hours on a single GPU using SDGD with PINNs. Since SDGD is a general training methodology of PINNs, it can be applied to any current and future variants of PINNs to scale them up for arbitrary high-dimensional PDEs.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.12306v6
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.12306v6
  - https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neunet.2024.106369
