Title: Learning Active Subspaces and Discovering Important Features with Gaussian Radial Basis Functions Neural Networks

Authors: Danny D'Agostino, Ilija Ilievski, Christine Annette Shoemaker

Published: 2023-07-11

Categories: cs.LG, cs.AI, cs.NE, stat.ML

Abstract:
Providing a model that achieves a strong predictive performance and is simultaneously interpretable by humans is one of the most difficult challenges in machine learning research due to the conflicting nature of these two objectives. To address this challenge, we propose a modification of the radial basis function neural network model by equipping its Gaussian kernel with a learnable precision matrix. We show that precious information is contained in the spectrum of the precision matrix that can be extracted once the training of the model is completed. In particular, the eigenvectors explain the directions of maximum sensitivity of the model revealing the active subspace and suggesting potential applications for supervised dimensionality reduction. At the same time, the eigenvectors highlight the relationship in terms of absolute variation between the input and the latent variables, thereby allowing us to extract a ranking of the input variables based on their importance to the prediction task enhancing the model interpretability. We conducted numerical experiments for regression, classification, and feature selection tasks, comparing our model against popular machine learning models, the state-of-the-art deep learning-based embedding feature selection techniques, and a transformer model for tabular data. Our results demonstrate that the proposed model does not only yield an attractive prediction performance compared to the competitors but also provides meaningful and interpretable results that potentially could assist the decision-making process in real-world applications. A PyTorch implementation of the model is available on GitHub at the following link. https://github.com/dannyzx/Gaussian-RBFNN

Paper ID: 2307.05639v2

Summary:
This paper titled "Learning Active Subspaces and Discovering Important Features with Gaussian Radial Basis Functions Neural Networks" was authored by Danny D'Agostino, Ilija Ilievski, Christine Annette Shoemaker and published on 2023-07-11.
It falls under the categories: cs.LG, cs.AI, cs.NE, stat.ML.
The research explores the following topic: Providing a model that achieves a strong predictive performance and is simultaneously interpretable by humans is one of the most difficult challenges in machine learning research due to the conflicting nature of these two objectives. To address this challenge, we propose a modification of the radial basis function neural network model by equipping its Gaussian kernel with a learnable precision matrix. We show that precious information is contained in the spectrum of the precision matrix that can be extracted once the training of the model is completed. In particular, the eigenvectors explain the directions of maximum sensitivity of the model revealing the active subspace and suggesting potential applications for supervised dimensionality reduction. At the same time, the eigenvectors highlight the relationship in terms of absolute variation between the input and the latent variables, thereby allowing us to extract a ranking of the input variables based on their importance to the prediction task enhancing the model interpretability. We conducted numerical experiments for regression, classification, and feature selection tasks, comparing our model against popular machine learning models, the state-of-the-art deep learning-based embedding feature selection techniques, and a transformer model for tabular data. Our results demonstrate that the proposed model does not only yield an attractive prediction performance compared to the competitors but also provides meaningful and interpretable results that potentially could assist the decision-making process in real-world applications. A PyTorch implementation of the model is available on GitHub at the following link. https://github.com/dannyzx/Gaussian-RBFNN

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/2307.05639v2
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/2307.05639v2
  - https://doi.org/10.1016/j.neunet.2024.106335
