Title: Ragas: Automated Evaluation of Retrieval Augmented Generation

Authors: Shahul Es, Jithin James, Luis Espinosa-Anke, Steven Schockaert

Published: 2023-09-26

Categories: cs.CL

Abstract:
We introduce Ragas (Retrieval Augmented Generation Assessment), a framework for reference-free evaluation of Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) pipelines. RAG systems are composed of a retrieval and an LLM based generation module, and provide LLMs with knowledge from a reference textual database, which enables them to act as a natural language layer between a user and textual databases, reducing the risk of hallucinations. Evaluating RAG architectures is, however, challenging because there are several dimensions to consider: the ability of the retrieval system to identify relevant and focused context passages, the ability of the LLM to exploit such passages in a faithful way, or the quality of the generation itself. With Ragas, we put forward a suite of metrics which can be used to evaluate these different dimensions \textit{without having to rely on ground truth human annotations}. We posit that such a framework can crucially contribute to faster evaluation cycles of RAG architectures, which is especially important given the fast adoption of LLMs.

Paper ID: 2309.15217v2

Summary:
This paper titled "Ragas: Automated Evaluation of Retrieval Augmented Generation" was authored by Shahul Es, Jithin James, Luis Espinosa-Anke, Steven Schockaert and published on 2023-09-26.
It falls under the categories: cs.CL.
The research explores the following topic: We introduce Ragas (Retrieval Augmented Generation Assessment), a framework for reference-free evaluation of Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) pipelines. RAG systems are composed of a retrieval and an LLM based generation module, and provide LLMs with knowledge from a reference textual database, which enables them to act as a natural language layer between a user and textual databases, reducing the risk of hallucinations. Evaluating RAG architectures is, however, challenging because there are several dimensions to consider: the ability of the retrieval system to identify relevant and focused context passages, the ability of the LLM to exploit such passages in a faithful way, or the quality of the generation itself. With Ragas, we put forward a suite of metrics which can be used to evaluate these different dimensions \textit{without having to rely on ground truth human annotations}. We posit that such a framework can crucially contribute to faster evaluation cycles of RAG architectures, which is especially important given the fast adoption of LLMs.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/2309.15217v2
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/2309.15217v2
