Title: Evaluation of Large Language Models for Decision Making in Autonomous Driving

Authors: Kotaro Tanahashi, Yuichi Inoue, Yu Yamaguchi, Hidetatsu Yaginuma, Daiki Shiotsuka, Hiroyuki Shimatani, Kohei Iwamasa, Yoshiaki Inoue, Takafumi Yamaguchi, Koki Igari, Tsukasa Horinouchi, Kento Tokuhiro, Yugo Tokuchi, Shunsuke Aoki

Published: 2023-12-11

Categories: cs.CV, cs.CL, cs.RO

Abstract:
Various methods have been proposed for utilizing Large Language Models (LLMs) in autonomous driving. One strategy of using LLMs for autonomous driving involves inputting surrounding objects as text prompts to the LLMs, along with their coordinate and velocity information, and then outputting the subsequent movements of the vehicle. When using LLMs for such purposes, capabilities such as spatial recognition and planning are essential. In particular, two foundational capabilities are required: (1) spatial-aware decision making, which is the ability to recognize space from coordinate information and make decisions to avoid collisions, and (2) the ability to adhere to traffic rules. However, quantitative research has not been conducted on how accurately different types of LLMs can handle these problems. In this study, we quantitatively evaluated these two abilities of LLMs in the context of autonomous driving. Furthermore, to conduct a Proof of Concept (POC) for the feasibility of implementing these abilities in actual vehicles, we developed a system that uses LLMs to drive a vehicle.

Paper ID: 2312.06351v1

Summary:
This paper titled "Evaluation of Large Language Models for Decision Making in Autonomous Driving" was authored by Kotaro Tanahashi, Yuichi Inoue, Yu Yamaguchi, Hidetatsu Yaginuma, Daiki Shiotsuka, Hiroyuki Shimatani, Kohei Iwamasa, Yoshiaki Inoue, Takafumi Yamaguchi, Koki Igari, Tsukasa Horinouchi, Kento Tokuhiro, Yugo Tokuchi, Shunsuke Aoki and published on 2023-12-11.
It falls under the categories: cs.CV, cs.CL, cs.RO.
The research explores the following topic: Various methods have been proposed for utilizing Large Language Models (LLMs) in autonomous driving. One strategy of using LLMs for autonomous driving involves inputting surrounding objects as text prompts to the LLMs, along with their coordinate and velocity information, and then outputting the subsequent movements of the vehicle. When using LLMs for such purposes, capabilities such as spatial recognition and planning are essential. In particular, two foundational capabilities are required: (1) spatial-aware decision making, which is the ability to recognize space from coordinate information and make decisions to avoid collisions, and (2) the ability to adhere to traffic rules. However, quantitative research has not been conducted on how accurately different types of LLMs can handle these problems. In this study, we quantitatively evaluated these two abilities of LLMs in the context of autonomous driving. Furthermore, to conduct a Proof of Concept (POC) for the feasibility of implementing these abilities in actual vehicles, we developed a system that uses LLMs to drive a vehicle.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.06351v1
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/2312.06351v1
