Title: Deliberative Technology for Alignment

Authors: Andrew Konya, Deger Turan, Aviv Ovadya, Lina Qui, Daanish Masood, Flynn Devine, Lisa Schirch, Isabella Roberts, Deliberative Alignment Forum

Published: 2023-12-06

Categories: cs.CY, cs.HC

Abstract:
For humanity to maintain and expand its agency into the future, the most powerful systems we create must be those which act to align the future with the will of humanity. The most powerful systems today are massive institutions like governments, firms, and NGOs. Deliberative technology is already being used across these institutions to help align governance and diplomacy with human will, and modern AI is poised to make this technology significantly better. At the same time, the race to superhuman AGI is already underway, and the AI systems it gives rise to may become the most powerful systems of the future. Failure to align the impact of such powerful AI with the will of humanity may lead to catastrophic consequences, while success may unleash abundance. Right now, there is a window of opportunity to use deliberative technology to align the impact of powerful AI with the will of humanity. Moreover, it may be possible to engineer a symbiotic coupling between powerful AI and deliberative alignment systems such that the quality of alignment improves as AI capabilities increase.

Paper ID: 2312.03893v1

Summary:
This paper titled "Deliberative Technology for Alignment" was authored by Andrew Konya, Deger Turan, Aviv Ovadya, Lina Qui, Daanish Masood, Flynn Devine, Lisa Schirch, Isabella Roberts, Deliberative Alignment Forum and published on 2023-12-06.
It falls under the categories: cs.CY, cs.HC.
The research explores the following topic: For humanity to maintain and expand its agency into the future, the most powerful systems we create must be those which act to align the future with the will of humanity. The most powerful systems today are massive institutions like governments, firms, and NGOs. Deliberative technology is already being used across these institutions to help align governance and diplomacy with human will, and modern AI is poised to make this technology significantly better. At the same time, the race to superhuman AGI is already underway, and the AI systems it gives rise to may become the most powerful systems of the future. Failure to align the impact of such powerful AI with the will of humanity may lead to catastrophic consequences, while success may unleash abundance. Right now, there is a window of opportunity to use deliberative technology to align the impact of powerful AI with the will of humanity. Moreover, it may be possible to engineer a symbiotic coupling between powerful AI and deliberative alignment systems such that the quality of alignment improves as AI capabilities increase.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/2312.03893v1
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/2312.03893v1
