Title: ALERT-Transformer: Bridging Asynchronous and Synchronous Machine Learning for Real-Time Event-based Spatio-Temporal Data

Authors: Carmen Martin-Turrero, Maxence Bouvier, Manuel Breitenstein, Pietro Zanuttigh, Vincent Parret

Published: 2024-02-02

Categories: cs.CV, cs.LG, cs.NE

Abstract:
We seek to enable classic processing of continuous ultra-sparse spatiotemporal data generated by event-based sensors with dense machine learning models. We propose a novel hybrid pipeline composed of asynchronous sensing and synchronous processing that combines several ideas: (1) an embedding based on PointNet models -- the ALERT module -- that can continuously integrate new and dismiss old events thanks to a leakage mechanism, (2) a flexible readout of the embedded data that allows to feed any downstream model with always up-to-date features at any sampling rate, (3) exploiting the input sparsity in a patch-based approach inspired by Vision Transformer to optimize the efficiency of the method. These embeddings are then processed by a transformer model trained for object and gesture recognition. Using this approach, we achieve performances at the state-of-the-art with a lower latency than competitors. We also demonstrate that our asynchronous model can operate at any desired sampling rate.

Paper ID: 2402.01393v3

Summary:
This paper titled "ALERT-Transformer: Bridging Asynchronous and Synchronous Machine Learning for Real-Time Event-based Spatio-Temporal Data" was authored by Carmen Martin-Turrero, Maxence Bouvier, Manuel Breitenstein, Pietro Zanuttigh, Vincent Parret and published on 2024-02-02.
It falls under the categories: cs.CV, cs.LG, cs.NE.
The research explores the following topic: We seek to enable classic processing of continuous ultra-sparse spatiotemporal data generated by event-based sensors with dense machine learning models. We propose a novel hybrid pipeline composed of asynchronous sensing and synchronous processing that combines several ideas: (1) an embedding based on PointNet models -- the ALERT module -- that can continuously integrate new and dismiss old events thanks to a leakage mechanism, (2) a flexible readout of the embedded data that allows to feed any downstream model with always up-to-date features at any sampling rate, (3) exploiting the input sparsity in a patch-based approach inspired by Vision Transformer to optimize the efficiency of the method. These embeddings are then processed by a transformer model trained for object and gesture recognition. Using this approach, we achieve performances at the state-of-the-art with a lower latency than competitors. We also demonstrate that our asynchronous model can operate at any desired sampling rate.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.01393v3
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/2402.01393v3
