Title: Collaborative filtering, K-nearest neighbor and cosine similarity in home decor recommender systems

Authors: Nanna Bach Munkholm, Robert Alphinas, Torben Tambo

Published: 2024-02-09

Categories: cs.IR, cs.SI

Abstract:
An architectural framework, based on collaborative filtering using K-nearest neighbor and cosine similarity, was developed and implemented to fit the requirements for the company DecorRaid. The aim of the paper is to test different evaluation techniques within the environment to research the recommender systems performance. Three perspectives were found relevant for evaluating a recommender system in the specific environment, namely dataset, system and user perspective. With these perspectives it was possible to gain a broader view of the recommender systems performance. Online A/B split testing was conducted to compare the performance of small adjustments to the RS and to test the relevance of the evaluation techniques. Key factors are solving the sparsity and cold start problem, where the suggestion is to research a hybrid RS combining Content-based and CF based techniques.

Paper ID: 2402.06233v1

Summary:
This paper titled "Collaborative filtering, K-nearest neighbor and cosine similarity in home decor recommender systems" was authored by Nanna Bach Munkholm, Robert Alphinas, Torben Tambo and published on 2024-02-09.
It falls under the categories: cs.IR, cs.SI.
The research explores the following topic: An architectural framework, based on collaborative filtering using K-nearest neighbor and cosine similarity, was developed and implemented to fit the requirements for the company DecorRaid. The aim of the paper is to test different evaluation techniques within the environment to research the recommender systems performance. Three perspectives were found relevant for evaluating a recommender system in the specific environment, namely dataset, system and user perspective. With these perspectives it was possible to gain a broader view of the recommender systems performance. Online A/B split testing was conducted to compare the performance of small adjustments to the RS and to test the relevance of the evaluation techniques. Key factors are solving the sparsity and cold start problem, where the suggestion is to research a hybrid RS combining Content-based and CF based techniques.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.06233v1
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/2402.06233v1
