Title: Learning Interpretable Concepts: Unifying Causal Representation Learning and Foundation Models

Authors: Goutham Rajendran, Simon Buchholz, Bryon Aragam, Bernhard Schölkopf, Pradeep Ravikumar

Published: 2024-02-14

Categories: cs.LG, cs.AI, math.ST, stat.ML

Abstract:
To build intelligent machine learning systems, there are two broad approaches. One approach is to build inherently interpretable models, as endeavored by the growing field of causal representation learning. The other approach is to build highly-performant foundation models and then invest efforts into understanding how they work. In this work, we relate these two approaches and study how to learn human-interpretable concepts from data. Weaving together ideas from both fields, we formally define a notion of concepts and show that they can be provably recovered from diverse data. Experiments on synthetic data and large language models show the utility of our unified approach.

Paper ID: 2402.09236v2

Summary:
This paper titled "Learning Interpretable Concepts: Unifying Causal Representation Learning and Foundation Models" was authored by Goutham Rajendran, Simon Buchholz, Bryon Aragam, Bernhard Schölkopf, Pradeep Ravikumar and published on 2024-02-14.
It falls under the categories: cs.LG, cs.AI, math.ST, stat.ML.
The research explores the following topic: To build intelligent machine learning systems, there are two broad approaches. One approach is to build inherently interpretable models, as endeavored by the growing field of causal representation learning. The other approach is to build highly-performant foundation models and then invest efforts into understanding how they work. In this work, we relate these two approaches and study how to learn human-interpretable concepts from data. Weaving together ideas from both fields, we formally define a notion of concepts and show that they can be provably recovered from diverse data. Experiments on synthetic data and large language models show the utility of our unified approach.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.09236v2
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/2402.09236v2
