Title: Attention Guided CAM: Visual Explanations of Vision Transformer Guided by Self-Attention

Authors: Saebom Leem, Hyunseok Seo

Published: 2024-02-07

Categories: cs.CV, cs.AI

Abstract:
Vision Transformer(ViT) is one of the most widely used models in the computer vision field with its great performance on various tasks. In order to fully utilize the ViT-based architecture in various applications, proper visualization methods with a decent localization performance are necessary, but these methods employed in CNN-based models are still not available in ViT due to its unique structure. In this work, we propose an attention-guided visualization method applied to ViT that provides a high-level semantic explanation for its decision. Our method selectively aggregates the gradients directly propagated from the classification output to each self-attention, collecting the contribution of image features extracted from each location of the input image. These gradients are additionally guided by the normalized self-attention scores, which are the pairwise patch correlation scores. They are used to supplement the gradients on the patch-level context information efficiently detected by the self-attention mechanism. This approach of our method provides elaborate high-level semantic explanations with great localization performance only with the class labels. As a result, our method outperforms the previous leading explainability methods of ViT in the weakly-supervised localization task and presents great capability in capturing the full instances of the target class object. Meanwhile, our method provides a visualization that faithfully explains the model, which is demonstrated in the perturbation comparison test.

Paper ID: 2402.04563v1

Summary:
This paper titled "Attention Guided CAM: Visual Explanations of Vision Transformer Guided by Self-Attention" was authored by Saebom Leem, Hyunseok Seo and published on 2024-02-07.
It falls under the categories: cs.CV, cs.AI.
The research explores the following topic: Vision Transformer(ViT) is one of the most widely used models in the computer vision field with its great performance on various tasks. In order to fully utilize the ViT-based architecture in various applications, proper visualization methods with a decent localization performance are necessary, but these methods employed in CNN-based models are still not available in ViT due to its unique structure. In this work, we propose an attention-guided visualization method applied to ViT that provides a high-level semantic explanation for its decision. Our method selectively aggregates the gradients directly propagated from the classification output to each self-attention, collecting the contribution of image features extracted from each location of the input image. These gradients are additionally guided by the normalized self-attention scores, which are the pairwise patch correlation scores. They are used to supplement the gradients on the patch-level context information efficiently detected by the self-attention mechanism. This approach of our method provides elaborate high-level semantic explanations with great localization performance only with the class labels. As a result, our method outperforms the previous leading explainability methods of ViT in the weakly-supervised localization task and presents great capability in capturing the full instances of the target class object. Meanwhile, our method provides a visualization that faithfully explains the model, which is demonstrated in the perturbation comparison test.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/2402.04563v1
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/2402.04563v1
