Title: Are Compressed Language Models Less Subgroup Robust?

Authors: Leonidas Gee, Andrea Zugarini, Novi Quadrianto

Published: 2024-03-26

Categories: cs.LG, cs.CL

Abstract:
To reduce the inference cost of large language models, model compression is increasingly used to create smaller scalable models. However, little is known about their robustness to minority subgroups defined by the labels and attributes of a dataset. In this paper, we investigate the effects of 18 different compression methods and settings on the subgroup robustness of BERT language models. We show that worst-group performance does not depend on model size alone, but also on the compression method used. Additionally, we find that model compression does not always worsen the performance on minority subgroups. Altogether, our analysis serves to further research into the subgroup robustness of model compression.

Paper ID: 2403.17811v1

Summary:
This paper titled "Are Compressed Language Models Less Subgroup Robust?" was authored by Leonidas Gee, Andrea Zugarini, Novi Quadrianto and published on 2024-03-26.
It falls under the categories: cs.LG, cs.CL.
The research explores the following topic: To reduce the inference cost of large language models, model compression is increasingly used to create smaller scalable models. However, little is known about their robustness to minority subgroups defined by the labels and attributes of a dataset. In this paper, we investigate the effects of 18 different compression methods and settings on the subgroup robustness of BERT language models. We show that worst-group performance does not depend on model size alone, but also on the compression method used. Additionally, we find that model compression does not always worsen the performance on minority subgroups. Altogether, our analysis serves to further research into the subgroup robustness of model compression.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/2403.17811v1
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/2403.17811v1
  - https://doi.org/10.18653/v1/2023.emnlp-main.983
