Title: CarLLaVA: Vision language models for camera-only closed-loop driving

Authors: Katrin Renz, Long Chen, Ana-Maria Marcu, Jan Hünermann, Benoit Hanotte, Alice Karnsund, Jamie Shotton, Elahe Arani, Oleg Sinavski

Published: 2024-06-14

Categories: cs.CV, cs.RO

Abstract:
In this technical report, we present CarLLaVA, a Vision Language Model (VLM) for autonomous driving, developed for the CARLA Autonomous Driving Challenge 2.0. CarLLaVA uses the vision encoder of the LLaVA VLM and the LLaMA architecture as backbone, achieving state-of-the-art closed-loop driving performance with only camera input and without the need for complex or expensive labels. Additionally, we show preliminary results on predicting language commentary alongside the driving output. CarLLaVA uses a semi-disentangled output representation of both path predictions and waypoints, getting the advantages of the path for better lateral control and the waypoints for better longitudinal control. We propose an efficient training recipe to train on large driving datasets without wasting compute on easy, trivial data. CarLLaVA ranks 1st place in the sensor track of the CARLA Autonomous Driving Challenge 2.0 outperforming the previous state of the art by 458% and the best concurrent submission by 32.6%.

Paper ID: 2406.10165v1

Summary:
This paper titled "CarLLaVA: Vision language models for camera-only closed-loop driving" was authored by Katrin Renz, Long Chen, Ana-Maria Marcu, Jan Hünermann, Benoit Hanotte, Alice Karnsund, Jamie Shotton, Elahe Arani, Oleg Sinavski and published on 2024-06-14.
It falls under the categories: cs.CV, cs.RO.
The research explores the following topic: In this technical report, we present CarLLaVA, a Vision Language Model (VLM) for autonomous driving, developed for the CARLA Autonomous Driving Challenge 2.0. CarLLaVA uses the vision encoder of the LLaVA VLM and the LLaMA architecture as backbone, achieving state-of-the-art closed-loop driving performance with only camera input and without the need for complex or expensive labels. Additionally, we show preliminary results on predicting language commentary alongside the driving output. CarLLaVA uses a semi-disentangled output representation of both path predictions and waypoints, getting the advantages of the path for better lateral control and the waypoints for better longitudinal control. We propose an efficient training recipe to train on large driving datasets without wasting compute on easy, trivial data. CarLLaVA ranks 1st place in the sensor track of the CARLA Autonomous Driving Challenge 2.0 outperforming the previous state of the art by 458% and the best concurrent submission by 32.6%.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.10165v1
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/2406.10165v1
