Title: Context-augmented Retrieval: A Novel Framework for Fast Information Retrieval based Response Generation using Large Language Model

Authors: Sai Ganesh, Anupam Purwar, Gautam B

Published: 2024-06-24

Categories: cs.IR

Abstract:
Generating high-quality answers consistently by providing contextual information embedded in the prompt passed to the Large Language Model (LLM) is dependent on the quality of information retrieval. As the corpus of contextual information grows, the answer/inference quality of Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) based Question Answering (QA) systems declines. This work solves this problem by combining classical text classification with the Large Language Model (LLM) to enable quick information retrieval from the vector store and ensure the relevancy of retrieved information. For the same, this work proposes a new approach Context Augmented retrieval (CAR), where partitioning of vector database by real-time classification of information flowing into the corpus is done. CAR demonstrates good quality answer generation along with significant reduction in information retrieval and answer generation time.

Paper ID: 2406.16383v2

Summary:
This paper titled "Context-augmented Retrieval: A Novel Framework for Fast Information Retrieval based Response Generation using Large Language Model" was authored by Sai Ganesh, Anupam Purwar, Gautam B and published on 2024-06-24.
It falls under the categories: cs.IR.
The research explores the following topic: Generating high-quality answers consistently by providing contextual information embedded in the prompt passed to the Large Language Model (LLM) is dependent on the quality of information retrieval. As the corpus of contextual information grows, the answer/inference quality of Retrieval Augmented Generation (RAG) based Question Answering (QA) systems declines. This work solves this problem by combining classical text classification with the Large Language Model (LLM) to enable quick information retrieval from the vector store and ensure the relevancy of retrieved information. For the same, this work proposes a new approach Context Augmented retrieval (CAR), where partitioning of vector database by real-time classification of information flowing into the corpus is done. CAR demonstrates good quality answer generation along with significant reduction in information retrieval and answer generation time.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/2406.16383v2
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/2406.16383v2
