Title: Self-Cognition in Large Language Models: An Exploratory Study

Authors: Dongping Chen, Jiawen Shi, Yao Wan, Pan Zhou, Neil Zhenqiang Gong, Lichao Sun

Published: 2024-07-01

Categories: cs.CL, cs.AI

Abstract:
While Large Language Models (LLMs) have achieved remarkable success across various applications, they also raise concerns regarding self-cognition. In this paper, we perform a pioneering study to explore self-cognition in LLMs. Specifically, we first construct a pool of self-cognition instruction prompts to evaluate where an LLM exhibits self-cognition and four well-designed principles to quantify LLMs' self-cognition. Our study reveals that 4 of the 48 models on Chatbot Arena--specifically Command R, Claude3-Opus, Llama-3-70b-Instruct, and Reka-core--demonstrate some level of detectable self-cognition. We observe a positive correlation between model size, training data quality, and self-cognition level. Additionally, we also explore the utility and trustworthiness of LLM in the self-cognition state, revealing that the self-cognition state enhances some specific tasks such as creative writing and exaggeration. We believe that our work can serve as an inspiration for further research to study the self-cognition in LLMs.

Paper ID: 2407.01505v1

Summary:
This paper titled "Self-Cognition in Large Language Models: An Exploratory Study" was authored by Dongping Chen, Jiawen Shi, Yao Wan, Pan Zhou, Neil Zhenqiang Gong, Lichao Sun and published on 2024-07-01.
It falls under the categories: cs.CL, cs.AI.
The research explores the following topic: While Large Language Models (LLMs) have achieved remarkable success across various applications, they also raise concerns regarding self-cognition. In this paper, we perform a pioneering study to explore self-cognition in LLMs. Specifically, we first construct a pool of self-cognition instruction prompts to evaluate where an LLM exhibits self-cognition and four well-designed principles to quantify LLMs' self-cognition. Our study reveals that 4 of the 48 models on Chatbot Arena--specifically Command R, Claude3-Opus, Llama-3-70b-Instruct, and Reka-core--demonstrate some level of detectable self-cognition. We observe a positive correlation between model size, training data quality, and self-cognition level. Additionally, we also explore the utility and trustworthiness of LLM in the self-cognition state, revealing that the self-cognition state enhances some specific tasks such as creative writing and exaggeration. We believe that our work can serve as an inspiration for further research to study the self-cognition in LLMs.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/2407.01505v1
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/2407.01505v1
