Title: Large Language Model (LLM)-enabled In-context Learning for Wireless Network Optimization: A Case Study of Power Control

Authors: Hao Zhou, Chengming Hu, Dun Yuan, Ye Yuan, Di Wu, Xue Liu, Charlie Zhang

Published: 2024-08-01

Categories: eess.SY

Abstract:
Large language model (LLM) has recently been considered a promising technique for many fields. This work explores LLM-based wireless network optimization via in-context learning. To showcase the potential of LLM technologies, we consider the base station (BS) power control as a case study, a fundamental but crucial technique that is widely investigated in wireless networks. Different from existing machine learning (ML) methods, our proposed in-context learning algorithm relies on LLM's inference capabilities. It avoids the complexity of tedious model training and hyper-parameter fine-tuning, which is a well-known bottleneck of many ML algorithms. Specifically, the proposed algorithm first describes the target task via formatted natural language, and then designs the in-context learning framework and demonstration examples. After that, it considers two cases, namely discrete-state and continuous-state problems, and proposes state-based and ranking-based methods to select appropriate examples for these two cases, respectively. Finally, the simulations demonstrate that the proposed algorithm can achieve comparable performance as conventional deep reinforcement learning (DRL) techniques without dedicated model training or fine-tuning. Such an efficient and low-complexity approach has great potential for future wireless network optimization.

Paper ID: 2408.00214v2

Summary:
This paper titled "Large Language Model (LLM)-enabled In-context Learning for Wireless Network Optimization: A Case Study of Power Control" was authored by Hao Zhou, Chengming Hu, Dun Yuan, Ye Yuan, Di Wu, Xue Liu, Charlie Zhang and published on 2024-08-01.
It falls under the categories: eess.SY.
The research explores the following topic: Large language model (LLM) has recently been considered a promising technique for many fields. This work explores LLM-based wireless network optimization via in-context learning. To showcase the potential of LLM technologies, we consider the base station (BS) power control as a case study, a fundamental but crucial technique that is widely investigated in wireless networks. Different from existing machine learning (ML) methods, our proposed in-context learning algorithm relies on LLM's inference capabilities. It avoids the complexity of tedious model training and hyper-parameter fine-tuning, which is a well-known bottleneck of many ML algorithms. Specifically, the proposed algorithm first describes the target task via formatted natural language, and then designs the in-context learning framework and demonstration examples. After that, it considers two cases, namely discrete-state and continuous-state problems, and proposes state-based and ranking-based methods to select appropriate examples for these two cases, respectively. Finally, the simulations demonstrate that the proposed algorithm can achieve comparable performance as conventional deep reinforcement learning (DRL) techniques without dedicated model training or fine-tuning. Such an efficient and low-complexity approach has great potential for future wireless network optimization.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.00214v2
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/2408.00214v2
