Title: SpeechPrompt: Prompting Speech Language Models for Speech Processing Tasks

Authors: Kai-Wei Chang, Haibin Wu, Yu-Kai Wang, Yuan-Kuei Wu, Hua Shen, Wei-Cheng Tseng, Iu-thing Kang, Shang-Wen Li, Hung-yi Lee

Published: 2024-08-23

Categories: eess.AS, cs.AI, cs.CL, cs.LG

Abstract:
Prompting has become a practical method for utilizing pre-trained language models (LMs). This approach offers several advantages. It allows an LM to adapt to new tasks with minimal training and parameter updates, thus achieving efficiency in both storage and computation. Additionally, prompting modifies only the LM's inputs and harnesses the generative capabilities of language models to address various downstream tasks in a unified manner. This significantly reduces the need for human labor in designing task-specific models. These advantages become even more evident as the number of tasks served by the LM scales up. Motivated by the strengths of prompting, we are the first to explore the potential of prompting speech LMs in the domain of speech processing. Recently, there has been a growing interest in converting speech into discrete units for language modeling. Our pioneer research demonstrates that these quantized speech units are highly versatile within our unified prompting framework. Not only can they serve as class labels, but they also contain rich phonetic information that can be re-synthesized back into speech signals for speech generation tasks. Specifically, we reformulate speech processing tasks into speech-to-unit generation tasks. As a result, we can seamlessly integrate tasks such as speech classification, sequence generation, and speech generation within a single, unified prompting framework. The experiment results show that the prompting method can achieve competitive performance compared to the strong fine-tuning method based on self-supervised learning models with a similar number of trainable parameters. The prompting method also shows promising results in the few-shot setting. Moreover, with the advanced speech LMs coming into the stage, the proposed prompting framework attains great potential.

Paper ID: 2408.13040v1

Summary:
This paper titled "SpeechPrompt: Prompting Speech Language Models for Speech Processing Tasks" was authored by Kai-Wei Chang, Haibin Wu, Yu-Kai Wang, Yuan-Kuei Wu, Hua Shen, Wei-Cheng Tseng, Iu-thing Kang, Shang-Wen Li, Hung-yi Lee and published on 2024-08-23.
It falls under the categories: eess.AS, cs.AI, cs.CL, cs.LG.
The research explores the following topic: Prompting has become a practical method for utilizing pre-trained language models (LMs). This approach offers several advantages. It allows an LM to adapt to new tasks with minimal training and parameter updates, thus achieving efficiency in both storage and computation. Additionally, prompting modifies only the LM's inputs and harnesses the generative capabilities of language models to address various downstream tasks in a unified manner. This significantly reduces the need for human labor in designing task-specific models. These advantages become even more evident as the number of tasks served by the LM scales up. Motivated by the strengths of prompting, we are the first to explore the potential of prompting speech LMs in the domain of speech processing. Recently, there has been a growing interest in converting speech into discrete units for language modeling. Our pioneer research demonstrates that these quantized speech units are highly versatile within our unified prompting framework. Not only can they serve as class labels, but they also contain rich phonetic information that can be re-synthesized back into speech signals for speech generation tasks. Specifically, we reformulate speech processing tasks into speech-to-unit generation tasks. As a result, we can seamlessly integrate tasks such as speech classification, sequence generation, and speech generation within a single, unified prompting framework. The experiment results show that the prompting method can achieve competitive performance compared to the strong fine-tuning method based on self-supervised learning models with a similar number of trainable parameters. The prompting method also shows promising results in the few-shot setting. Moreover, with the advanced speech LMs coming into the stage, the proposed prompting framework attains great potential.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.13040v1
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/2408.13040v1
  - https://doi.org/10.1109/TASLP.2024.3436618
