Title: Learning Multi-agent Multi-machine Tending by Mobile Robots

Authors: Abdalwhab Abdalwhab, Giovanni Beltrame, Samira Ebrahimi Kahou, David St-Onge

Published: 2024-08-29

Categories: cs.RO, cs.LG

Abstract:
Robotics can help address the growing worker shortage challenge of the manufacturing industry. As such, machine tending is a task collaborative robots can tackle that can also highly boost productivity. Nevertheless, existing robotics systems deployed in that sector rely on a fixed single-arm setup, whereas mobile robots can provide more flexibility and scalability. In this work, we introduce a multi-agent multi-machine tending learning framework by mobile robots based on Multi-agent Reinforcement Learning (MARL) techniques with the design of a suitable observation and reward. Moreover, an attention-based encoding mechanism is developed and integrated into Multi-agent Proximal Policy Optimization (MAPPO) algorithm to boost its performance for machine tending scenarios. Our model (AB-MAPPO) outperformed MAPPO in this new challenging scenario in terms of task success, safety, and resources utilization. Furthermore, we provided an extensive ablation study to support our various design decisions.

Paper ID: 2408.16875v3

Summary:
This paper titled "Learning Multi-agent Multi-machine Tending by Mobile Robots" was authored by Abdalwhab Abdalwhab, Giovanni Beltrame, Samira Ebrahimi Kahou, David St-Onge and published on 2024-08-29.
It falls under the categories: cs.RO, cs.LG.
The research explores the following topic: Robotics can help address the growing worker shortage challenge of the manufacturing industry. As such, machine tending is a task collaborative robots can tackle that can also highly boost productivity. Nevertheless, existing robotics systems deployed in that sector rely on a fixed single-arm setup, whereas mobile robots can provide more flexibility and scalability. In this work, we introduce a multi-agent multi-machine tending learning framework by mobile robots based on Multi-agent Reinforcement Learning (MARL) techniques with the design of a suitable observation and reward. Moreover, an attention-based encoding mechanism is developed and integrated into Multi-agent Proximal Policy Optimization (MAPPO) algorithm to boost its performance for machine tending scenarios. Our model (AB-MAPPO) outperformed MAPPO in this new challenging scenario in terms of task success, safety, and resources utilization. Furthermore, we provided an extensive ablation study to support our various design decisions.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/2408.16875v3
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/2408.16875v3
