Title: A Flow-based Truncated Denoising Diffusion Model for Super-resolution Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopic Imaging

Authors: Siyuan Dong, Zhuotong Cai, Gilbert Hangel, Wolfgang Bogner, Georg Widhalm, Yaqing Huang, Qinghao Liang, Chenyu You, Chathura Kumaragamage, Robert K. Fulbright, Amit Mahajan, Amin Karbasi, John A. Onofrey, Robin A. de Graaf, James S. Duncan

Published: 2024-10-25

Categories: eess.IV, cs.CV, cs.LG

Abstract:
Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopic Imaging (MRSI) is a non-invasive imaging technique for studying metabolism and has become a crucial tool for understanding neurological diseases, cancers and diabetes. High spatial resolution MRSI is needed to characterize lesions, but in practice MRSI is acquired at low resolution due to time and sensitivity restrictions caused by the low metabolite concentrations. Therefore, there is an imperative need for a post-processing approach to generate high-resolution MRSI from low-resolution data that can be acquired fast and with high sensitivity. Deep learning-based super-resolution methods provided promising results for improving the spatial resolution of MRSI, but they still have limited capability to generate accurate and high-quality images. Recently, diffusion models have demonstrated superior learning capability than other generative models in various tasks, but sampling from diffusion models requires iterating through a large number of diffusion steps, which is time-consuming. This work introduces a Flow-based Truncated Denoising Diffusion Model (FTDDM) for super-resolution MRSI, which shortens the diffusion process by truncating the diffusion chain, and the truncated steps are estimated using a normalizing flow-based network. The network is conditioned on upscaling factors to enable multi-scale super-resolution. To train and evaluate the deep learning models, we developed a 1H-MRSI dataset acquired from 25 high-grade glioma patients. We demonstrate that FTDDM outperforms existing generative models while speeding up the sampling process by over 9-fold compared to the baseline diffusion model. Neuroradiologists' evaluations confirmed the clinical advantages of our method, which also supports uncertainty estimation and sharpness adjustment, extending its potential clinical applications.

Paper ID: 2410.19288v1

Summary:
This paper titled "A Flow-based Truncated Denoising Diffusion Model for Super-resolution Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopic Imaging" was authored by Siyuan Dong, Zhuotong Cai, Gilbert Hangel, Wolfgang Bogner, Georg Widhalm, Yaqing Huang, Qinghao Liang, Chenyu You, Chathura Kumaragamage, Robert K. Fulbright, Amit Mahajan, Amin Karbasi, John A. Onofrey, Robin A. de Graaf, James S. Duncan and published on 2024-10-25.
It falls under the categories: eess.IV, cs.CV, cs.LG.
The research explores the following topic: Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopic Imaging (MRSI) is a non-invasive imaging technique for studying metabolism and has become a crucial tool for understanding neurological diseases, cancers and diabetes. High spatial resolution MRSI is needed to characterize lesions, but in practice MRSI is acquired at low resolution due to time and sensitivity restrictions caused by the low metabolite concentrations. Therefore, there is an imperative need for a post-processing approach to generate high-resolution MRSI from low-resolution data that can be acquired fast and with high sensitivity. Deep learning-based super-resolution methods provided promising results for improving the spatial resolution of MRSI, but they still have limited capability to generate accurate and high-quality images. Recently, diffusion models have demonstrated superior learning capability than other generative models in various tasks, but sampling from diffusion models requires iterating through a large number of diffusion steps, which is time-consuming. This work introduces a Flow-based Truncated Denoising Diffusion Model (FTDDM) for super-resolution MRSI, which shortens the diffusion process by truncating the diffusion chain, and the truncated steps are estimated using a normalizing flow-based network. The network is conditioned on upscaling factors to enable multi-scale super-resolution. To train and evaluate the deep learning models, we developed a 1H-MRSI dataset acquired from 25 high-grade glioma patients. We demonstrate that FTDDM outperforms existing generative models while speeding up the sampling process by over 9-fold compared to the baseline diffusion model. Neuroradiologists' evaluations confirmed the clinical advantages of our method, which also supports uncertainty estimation and sharpness adjustment, extending its potential clinical applications.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.19288v1
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.19288v1
  - https://doi.org/10.1016/j.media.2024.103358
