Title: Metalic: Meta-Learning In-Context with Protein Language Models

Authors: Jacob Beck, Shikha Surana, Manus McAuliffe, Oliver Bent, Thomas D. Barrett, Juan Jose Garau Luis, Paul Duckworth

Published: 2024-10-10

Categories: cs.LG

Abstract:
Predicting the biophysical and functional properties of proteins is essential for in silico protein design. Machine learning has emerged as a promising technique for such prediction tasks. However, the relative scarcity of in vitro annotations means that these models often have little, or no, specific data on the desired fitness prediction task. As a result of limited data, protein language models (PLMs) are typically trained on general protein sequence modeling tasks, and then fine-tuned, or applied zero-shot, to protein fitness prediction. When no task data is available, the models make strong assumptions about the correlation between the protein sequence likelihood and fitness scores. In contrast, we propose meta-learning over a distribution of standard fitness prediction tasks, and demonstrate positive transfer to unseen fitness prediction tasks. Our method, called Metalic (Meta-Learning In-Context), uses in-context learning and fine-tuning, when data is available, to adapt to new tasks. Crucially, fine-tuning enables considerable generalization, even though it is not accounted for during meta-training. Our fine-tuned models achieve strong results with 18 times fewer parameters than state-of-the-art models. Moreover, our method sets a new state-of-the-art in low-data settings on ProteinGym, an established fitness-prediction benchmark. Due to data scarcity, we believe meta-learning will play a pivotal role in advancing protein engineering.

Paper ID: 2410.08355v3

Summary:
This paper titled "Metalic: Meta-Learning In-Context with Protein Language Models" was authored by Jacob Beck, Shikha Surana, Manus McAuliffe, Oliver Bent, Thomas D. Barrett, Juan Jose Garau Luis, Paul Duckworth and published on 2024-10-10.
It falls under the categories: cs.LG.
The research explores the following topic: Predicting the biophysical and functional properties of proteins is essential for in silico protein design. Machine learning has emerged as a promising technique for such prediction tasks. However, the relative scarcity of in vitro annotations means that these models often have little, or no, specific data on the desired fitness prediction task. As a result of limited data, protein language models (PLMs) are typically trained on general protein sequence modeling tasks, and then fine-tuned, or applied zero-shot, to protein fitness prediction. When no task data is available, the models make strong assumptions about the correlation between the protein sequence likelihood and fitness scores. In contrast, we propose meta-learning over a distribution of standard fitness prediction tasks, and demonstrate positive transfer to unseen fitness prediction tasks. Our method, called Metalic (Meta-Learning In-Context), uses in-context learning and fine-tuning, when data is available, to adapt to new tasks. Crucially, fine-tuning enables considerable generalization, even though it is not accounted for during meta-training. Our fine-tuned models achieve strong results with 18 times fewer parameters than state-of-the-art models. Moreover, our method sets a new state-of-the-art in low-data settings on ProteinGym, an established fitness-prediction benchmark. Due to data scarcity, we believe meta-learning will play a pivotal role in advancing protein engineering.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/2410.08355v3
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/2410.08355v3
