Title: On the Surprising Effectiveness of Attention Transfer for Vision Transformers

Authors: Alexander C. Li, Yuandong Tian, Beidi Chen, Deepak Pathak, Xinlei Chen

Published: 2024-11-14

Categories: cs.LG, cs.AI, cs.CV, cs.NE

Abstract:
Conventional wisdom suggests that pre-training Vision Transformers (ViT) improves downstream performance by learning useful representations. Is this actually true? We investigate this question and find that the features and representations learned during pre-training are not essential. Surprisingly, using only the attention patterns from pre-training (i.e., guiding how information flows between tokens) is sufficient for models to learn high quality features from scratch and achieve comparable downstream performance. We show this by introducing a simple method called attention transfer, where only the attention patterns from a pre-trained teacher ViT are transferred to a student, either by copying or distilling the attention maps. Since attention transfer lets the student learn its own features, ensembling it with a fine-tuned teacher also further improves accuracy on ImageNet. We systematically study various aspects of our findings on the sufficiency of attention maps, including distribution shift settings where they underperform fine-tuning. We hope our exploration provides a better understanding of what pre-training accomplishes and leads to a useful alternative to the standard practice of fine-tuning

Paper ID: 2411.09702v1

Summary:
This paper titled "On the Surprising Effectiveness of Attention Transfer for Vision Transformers" was authored by Alexander C. Li, Yuandong Tian, Beidi Chen, Deepak Pathak, Xinlei Chen and published on 2024-11-14.
It falls under the categories: cs.LG, cs.AI, cs.CV, cs.NE.
The research explores the following topic: Conventional wisdom suggests that pre-training Vision Transformers (ViT) improves downstream performance by learning useful representations. Is this actually true? We investigate this question and find that the features and representations learned during pre-training are not essential. Surprisingly, using only the attention patterns from pre-training (i.e., guiding how information flows between tokens) is sufficient for models to learn high quality features from scratch and achieve comparable downstream performance. We show this by introducing a simple method called attention transfer, where only the attention patterns from a pre-trained teacher ViT are transferred to a student, either by copying or distilling the attention maps. Since attention transfer lets the student learn its own features, ensembling it with a fine-tuned teacher also further improves accuracy on ImageNet. We systematically study various aspects of our findings on the sufficiency of attention maps, including distribution shift settings where they underperform fine-tuning. We hope our exploration provides a better understanding of what pre-training accomplishes and leads to a useful alternative to the standard practice of fine-tuning

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.09702v1
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/2411.09702v1
