Title: Natural Language Understanding and Inference with MLLM in Visual Question Answering: A Survey

Authors: Jiayi Kuang, Jingyou Xie, Haohao Luo, Ronghao Li, Zhe Xu, Xianfeng Cheng, Yinghui Li, Xika Lin, Ying Shen

Published: 2024-11-26

Categories: cs.CL, cs.CV

Abstract:
Visual Question Answering (VQA) is a challenge task that combines natural language processing and computer vision techniques and gradually becomes a benchmark test task in multimodal large language models (MLLMs). The goal of our survey is to provide an overview of the development of VQA and a detailed description of the latest models with high timeliness. This survey gives an up-to-date synthesis of natural language understanding of images and text, as well as the knowledge reasoning module based on image-question information on the core VQA tasks. In addition, we elaborate on recent advances in extracting and fusing modal information with vision-language pretraining models and multimodal large language models in VQA. We also exhaustively review the progress of knowledge reasoning in VQA by detailing the extraction of internal knowledge and the introduction of external knowledge. Finally, we present the datasets of VQA and different evaluation metrics and discuss possible directions for future work.

Paper ID: 2411.17558v1

Summary:
This paper titled "Natural Language Understanding and Inference with MLLM in Visual Question Answering: A Survey" was authored by Jiayi Kuang, Jingyou Xie, Haohao Luo, Ronghao Li, Zhe Xu, Xianfeng Cheng, Yinghui Li, Xika Lin, Ying Shen and published on 2024-11-26.
It falls under the categories: cs.CL, cs.CV.
The research explores the following topic: Visual Question Answering (VQA) is a challenge task that combines natural language processing and computer vision techniques and gradually becomes a benchmark test task in multimodal large language models (MLLMs). The goal of our survey is to provide an overview of the development of VQA and a detailed description of the latest models with high timeliness. This survey gives an up-to-date synthesis of natural language understanding of images and text, as well as the knowledge reasoning module based on image-question information on the core VQA tasks. In addition, we elaborate on recent advances in extracting and fusing modal information with vision-language pretraining models and multimodal large language models in VQA. We also exhaustively review the progress of knowledge reasoning in VQA by detailing the extraction of internal knowledge and the introduction of external knowledge. Finally, we present the datasets of VQA and different evaluation metrics and discuss possible directions for future work.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/2411.17558v1
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/2411.17558v1
