Title: X-Prompt: Towards Universal In-Context Image Generation in Auto-Regressive Vision Language Foundation Models

Authors: Zeyi Sun, Ziyang Chu, Pan Zhang, Tong Wu, Xiaoyi Dong, Yuhang Zang, Yuanjun Xiong, Dahua Lin, Jiaqi Wang

Published: 2024-12-02

Categories: cs.CV, cs.AI, cs.LG, cs.MM

Abstract:
In-context generation is a key component of large language models' (LLMs) open-task generalization capability. By leveraging a few examples as context, LLMs can perform both in-domain and out-of-domain tasks. Recent advancements in auto-regressive vision-language models (VLMs) built upon LLMs have showcased impressive performance in text-to-image generation. However, the potential of in-context learning for general image generation tasks remains largely unexplored. To address this, we introduce X-Prompt, a purely auto-regressive large-vision language model designed to deliver competitive performance across a wide range of both seen and unseen image generation tasks, all within a unified in-context learning framework. X-Prompt incorporates a specialized design that efficiently compresses valuable features from in-context examples, supporting longer in-context token sequences and improving its ability to generalize to unseen tasks. A unified training task for both text and image prediction enables X-Prompt to handle general image generation with enhanced task awareness from in-context examples. Extensive experiments validate the model's performance across diverse seen image generation tasks and its capacity to generalize to previously unseen tasks.

Paper ID: 2412.01824v2

Summary:
This paper titled "X-Prompt: Towards Universal In-Context Image Generation in Auto-Regressive Vision Language Foundation Models" was authored by Zeyi Sun, Ziyang Chu, Pan Zhang, Tong Wu, Xiaoyi Dong, Yuhang Zang, Yuanjun Xiong, Dahua Lin, Jiaqi Wang and published on 2024-12-02.
It falls under the categories: cs.CV, cs.AI, cs.LG, cs.MM.
The research explores the following topic: In-context generation is a key component of large language models' (LLMs) open-task generalization capability. By leveraging a few examples as context, LLMs can perform both in-domain and out-of-domain tasks. Recent advancements in auto-regressive vision-language models (VLMs) built upon LLMs have showcased impressive performance in text-to-image generation. However, the potential of in-context learning for general image generation tasks remains largely unexplored. To address this, we introduce X-Prompt, a purely auto-regressive large-vision language model designed to deliver competitive performance across a wide range of both seen and unseen image generation tasks, all within a unified in-context learning framework. X-Prompt incorporates a specialized design that efficiently compresses valuable features from in-context examples, supporting longer in-context token sequences and improving its ability to generalize to unseen tasks. A unified training task for both text and image prediction enables X-Prompt to handle general image generation with enhanced task awareness from in-context examples. Extensive experiments validate the model's performance across diverse seen image generation tasks and its capacity to generalize to previously unseen tasks.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/2412.01824v2
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/2412.01824v2
