Title: Head-Specific Intervention Can Induce Misaligned AI Coordination in Large Language Models

Authors: Paul Darm, Annalisa Riccardi

Published: 2025-02-09

Categories: cs.CL, cs.AI

Abstract:
Robust alignment guardrails for large language models (LLMs) are becoming increasingly important with their widespread application. In contrast to previous studies, we demonstrate that inference-time activation interventions can bypass safety alignments and effectively steer model generations towards harmful AI coordination. Our method applies fine-grained interventions at specific attention heads, which we identify by probing each head in a simple binary choice task. We then show that interventions on these heads generalise to the open-ended generation setting, effectively circumventing safety guardrails. We demonstrate that intervening on a few attention heads is more effective than intervening on full layers or supervised fine-tuning. We further show that only a few example completions are needed to compute effective steering directions, which is an advantage over classical fine-tuning. We also demonstrate that applying interventions in the negative direction can prevent a common jailbreak attack. Our results suggest that, at the attention head level, activations encode fine-grained linearly separable behaviours. Practically, the approach offers a straightforward methodology to steer large language model behaviour, which could be extended to diverse domains beyond safety, requiring fine-grained control over the model output. The code and datasets for this study can be found on https://github.com/PaulDrm/targeted_intervention.

Paper ID: 2502.05945v3

Summary:
This paper titled "Head-Specific Intervention Can Induce Misaligned AI Coordination in Large Language Models" was authored by Paul Darm, Annalisa Riccardi and published on 2025-02-09.
It falls under the categories: cs.CL, cs.AI.
The research explores the following topic: Robust alignment guardrails for large language models (LLMs) are becoming increasingly important with their widespread application. In contrast to previous studies, we demonstrate that inference-time activation interventions can bypass safety alignments and effectively steer model generations towards harmful AI coordination. Our method applies fine-grained interventions at specific attention heads, which we identify by probing each head in a simple binary choice task. We then show that interventions on these heads generalise to the open-ended generation setting, effectively circumventing safety guardrails. We demonstrate that intervening on a few attention heads is more effective than intervening on full layers or supervised fine-tuning. We further show that only a few example completions are needed to compute effective steering directions, which is an advantage over classical fine-tuning. We also demonstrate that applying interventions in the negative direction can prevent a common jailbreak attack. Our results suggest that, at the attention head level, activations encode fine-grained linearly separable behaviours. Practically, the approach offers a straightforward methodology to steer large language model behaviour, which could be extended to diverse domains beyond safety, requiring fine-grained control over the model output. The code and datasets for this study can be found on https://github.com/PaulDrm/targeted_intervention.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.05945v3
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/2502.05945v3
