Title: Speech-FT: Merging Pre-trained And Fine-Tuned Speech Representation Models For Cross-Task Generalization

Authors: Tzu-Quan Lin, Wei-Ping Huang, Hao Tang, Hung-yi Lee

Published: 2025-02-18

Categories: cs.CL, cs.AI, cs.SD

Abstract:
Fine-tuning speech representation models can enhance performance on specific tasks but often compromises their cross-task generalization ability. This degradation is often caused by excessive changes in the representations, making it difficult to retain information learned during pre-training. Existing approaches, such as regularizing weight changes during fine-tuning, may fail to maintain sufficiently high feature similarity with the pre-trained model, and thus could possibly lose cross-task generalization. To address this issue, we propose Speech-FT, a novel two-stage fine-tuning framework designed to maintain cross-task generalization while benefiting from fine-tuning. Speech-FT first applies fine-tuning specifically designed to reduce representational drift, followed by weight-space interpolation with the pre-trained model to restore cross-task generalization. Extensive experiments on HuBERT, wav2vec 2.0, DeCoAR 2.0, and WavLM Base+ demonstrate that Speech-FT consistently improves performance across a wide range of supervised, unsupervised, and multitask fine-tuning scenarios. Moreover, Speech-FT achieves superior cross-task generalization compared to fine-tuning baselines that explicitly constrain weight changes, such as weight-space regularization and LoRA fine-tuning. Our analysis reveals that Speech-FT maintains higher feature similarity to the pre-trained model compared to alternative strategies, despite allowing larger weight-space updates. Notably, Speech-FT achieves significant improvements on the SUPERB benchmark. For example, when fine-tuning HuBERT on automatic speech recognition, Speech-FT is able to reduce phone error rate from 5.17% to 3.94%, lower word error rate from 6.38% to 5.75%, and increase speaker identification accuracy from 81.86% to 84.11%. Speech-FT provides a simple yet powerful solution for further refining speech representation models after pre-training.

Paper ID: 2502.12672v4

Summary:
This paper titled "Speech-FT: Merging Pre-trained And Fine-Tuned Speech Representation Models For Cross-Task Generalization" was authored by Tzu-Quan Lin, Wei-Ping Huang, Hao Tang, Hung-yi Lee and published on 2025-02-18.
It falls under the categories: cs.CL, cs.AI, cs.SD.
The research explores the following topic: Fine-tuning speech representation models can enhance performance on specific tasks but often compromises their cross-task generalization ability. This degradation is often caused by excessive changes in the representations, making it difficult to retain information learned during pre-training. Existing approaches, such as regularizing weight changes during fine-tuning, may fail to maintain sufficiently high feature similarity with the pre-trained model, and thus could possibly lose cross-task generalization. To address this issue, we propose Speech-FT, a novel two-stage fine-tuning framework designed to maintain cross-task generalization while benefiting from fine-tuning. Speech-FT first applies fine-tuning specifically designed to reduce representational drift, followed by weight-space interpolation with the pre-trained model to restore cross-task generalization. Extensive experiments on HuBERT, wav2vec 2.0, DeCoAR 2.0, and WavLM Base+ demonstrate that Speech-FT consistently improves performance across a wide range of supervised, unsupervised, and multitask fine-tuning scenarios. Moreover, Speech-FT achieves superior cross-task generalization compared to fine-tuning baselines that explicitly constrain weight changes, such as weight-space regularization and LoRA fine-tuning. Our analysis reveals that Speech-FT maintains higher feature similarity to the pre-trained model compared to alternative strategies, despite allowing larger weight-space updates. Notably, Speech-FT achieves significant improvements on the SUPERB benchmark. For example, when fine-tuning HuBERT on automatic speech recognition, Speech-FT is able to reduce phone error rate from 5.17% to 3.94%, lower word error rate from 6.38% to 5.75%, and increase speaker identification accuracy from 81.86% to 84.11%. Speech-FT provides a simple yet powerful solution for further refining speech representation models after pre-training.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.12672v4
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/2502.12672v4
  - https://doi.org/10.1109/TASLPRO.2025.3635827
