Title: Benchmarking Prompt Engineering Techniques for Secure Code Generation with GPT Models

Authors: Marc Bruni, Fabio Gabrielli, Mohammad Ghafari, Martin Kropp

Published: 2025-02-09

Categories: cs.SE, cs.AI, cs.CR

Abstract:
Prompt engineering reduces reasoning mistakes in Large Language Models (LLMs). However, its effectiveness in mitigating vulnerabilities in LLM-generated code remains underexplored. To address this gap, we implemented a benchmark to automatically assess the impact of various prompt engineering strategies on code security. Our benchmark leverages two peer-reviewed prompt datasets and employs static scanners to evaluate code security at scale. We tested multiple prompt engineering techniques on GPT-3.5-turbo, GPT-4o, and GPT-4o-mini. Our results show that for GPT-4o and GPT-4o-mini, a security-focused prompt prefix can reduce the occurrence of security vulnerabilities by up to 56%. Additionally, all tested models demonstrated the ability to detect and repair between 41.9% and 68.7% of vulnerabilities in previously generated code when using iterative prompting techniques. Finally, we introduce a "prompt agent" that demonstrates how the most effective techniques can be applied in real-world development workflows.

Paper ID: 2502.06039v1

Summary:
This paper titled "Benchmarking Prompt Engineering Techniques for Secure Code Generation with GPT Models" was authored by Marc Bruni, Fabio Gabrielli, Mohammad Ghafari, Martin Kropp and published on 2025-02-09.
It falls under the categories: cs.SE, cs.AI, cs.CR.
The research explores the following topic: Prompt engineering reduces reasoning mistakes in Large Language Models (LLMs). However, its effectiveness in mitigating vulnerabilities in LLM-generated code remains underexplored. To address this gap, we implemented a benchmark to automatically assess the impact of various prompt engineering strategies on code security. Our benchmark leverages two peer-reviewed prompt datasets and employs static scanners to evaluate code security at scale. We tested multiple prompt engineering techniques on GPT-3.5-turbo, GPT-4o, and GPT-4o-mini. Our results show that for GPT-4o and GPT-4o-mini, a security-focused prompt prefix can reduce the occurrence of security vulnerabilities by up to 56%. Additionally, all tested models demonstrated the ability to detect and repair between 41.9% and 68.7% of vulnerabilities in previously generated code when using iterative prompting techniques. Finally, we introduce a "prompt agent" that demonstrates how the most effective techniques can be applied in real-world development workflows.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/2502.06039v1
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/2502.06039v1
