Title: Retrieval Models Aren't Tool-Savvy: Benchmarking Tool Retrieval for Large Language Models

Authors: Zhengliang Shi, Yuhan Wang, Lingyong Yan, Pengjie Ren, Shuaiqiang Wang, Dawei Yin, Zhaochun Ren

Published: 2025-03-03

Categories: cs.CL, cs.AI, cs.IR

Abstract:
Tool learning aims to augment large language models (LLMs) with diverse tools, enabling them to act as agents for solving practical tasks. Due to the limited context length of tool-using LLMs, adopting information retrieval (IR) models to select useful tools from large toolsets is a critical initial step. However, the performance of IR models in tool retrieval tasks remains underexplored and unclear. Most tool-use benchmarks simplify this step by manually pre-annotating a small set of relevant tools for each task, which is far from the real-world scenarios. In this paper, we propose ToolRet, a heterogeneous tool retrieval benchmark comprising 7.6k diverse retrieval tasks, and a corpus of 43k tools, collected from existing datasets. We benchmark six types of models on ToolRet. Surprisingly, even the models with strong performance in conventional IR benchmarks, exhibit poor performance on ToolRet. This low retrieval quality degrades the task pass rate of tool-use LLMs. As a further step, we contribute a large-scale training dataset with over 200k instances, which substantially optimizes the tool retrieval ability of IR models.

Paper ID: 2503.01763v2

Summary:
This paper titled "Retrieval Models Aren't Tool-Savvy: Benchmarking Tool Retrieval for Large Language Models" was authored by Zhengliang Shi, Yuhan Wang, Lingyong Yan, Pengjie Ren, Shuaiqiang Wang, Dawei Yin, Zhaochun Ren and published on 2025-03-03.
It falls under the categories: cs.CL, cs.AI, cs.IR.
The research explores the following topic: Tool learning aims to augment large language models (LLMs) with diverse tools, enabling them to act as agents for solving practical tasks. Due to the limited context length of tool-using LLMs, adopting information retrieval (IR) models to select useful tools from large toolsets is a critical initial step. However, the performance of IR models in tool retrieval tasks remains underexplored and unclear. Most tool-use benchmarks simplify this step by manually pre-annotating a small set of relevant tools for each task, which is far from the real-world scenarios. In this paper, we propose ToolRet, a heterogeneous tool retrieval benchmark comprising 7.6k diverse retrieval tasks, and a corpus of 43k tools, collected from existing datasets. We benchmark six types of models on ToolRet. Surprisingly, even the models with strong performance in conventional IR benchmarks, exhibit poor performance on ToolRet. This low retrieval quality degrades the task pass rate of tool-use LLMs. As a further step, we contribute a large-scale training dataset with over 200k instances, which substantially optimizes the tool retrieval ability of IR models.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/2503.01763v2
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/2503.01763v2
