Title: Small but Significant: On the Promise of Small Language Models for Accessible AIED

Authors: Yumou Wei, Paulo Carvalho, John Stamper

Published: 2025-05-13

Categories: cs.CL, cs.AI, cs.CY, cs.HC

Abstract:
GPT has become nearly synonymous with large language models (LLMs), an increasingly popular term in AIED proceedings. A simple keyword-based search reveals that 61% of the 76 long and short papers presented at AIED 2024 describe novel solutions using LLMs to address some of the long-standing challenges in education, and 43% specifically mention GPT. Although LLMs pioneered by GPT create exciting opportunities to strengthen the impact of AI on education, we argue that the field's predominant focus on GPT and other resource-intensive LLMs (with more than 10B parameters) risks neglecting the potential impact that small language models (SLMs) can make in providing resource-constrained institutions with equitable and affordable access to high-quality AI tools. Supported by positive results on knowledge component (KC) discovery, a critical challenge in AIED, we demonstrate that SLMs such as Phi-2 can produce an effective solution without elaborate prompting strategies. Hence, we call for more attention to developing SLM-based AIED approaches.

Paper ID: 2505.08588v1

Summary:
This paper titled "Small but Significant: On the Promise of Small Language Models for Accessible AIED" was authored by Yumou Wei, Paulo Carvalho, John Stamper and published on 2025-05-13.
It falls under the categories: cs.CL, cs.AI, cs.CY, cs.HC.
The research explores the following topic: GPT has become nearly synonymous with large language models (LLMs), an increasingly popular term in AIED proceedings. A simple keyword-based search reveals that 61% of the 76 long and short papers presented at AIED 2024 describe novel solutions using LLMs to address some of the long-standing challenges in education, and 43% specifically mention GPT. Although LLMs pioneered by GPT create exciting opportunities to strengthen the impact of AI on education, we argue that the field's predominant focus on GPT and other resource-intensive LLMs (with more than 10B parameters) risks neglecting the potential impact that small language models (SLMs) can make in providing resource-constrained institutions with equitable and affordable access to high-quality AI tools. Supported by positive results on knowledge component (KC) discovery, a critical challenge in AIED, we demonstrate that SLMs such as Phi-2 can produce an effective solution without elaborate prompting strategies. Hence, we call for more attention to developing SLM-based AIED approaches.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/2505.08588v1
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/2505.08588v1
