Title: AR-RAG: Autoregressive Retrieval Augmentation for Image Generation

Authors: Jingyuan Qi, Zhiyang Xu, Qifan Wang, Lifu Huang

Published: 2025-06-08

Categories: cs.CV

Abstract:
We introduce Autoregressive Retrieval Augmentation (AR-RAG), a novel paradigm that enhances image generation by autoregressively incorporating knearest neighbor retrievals at the patch level. Unlike prior methods that perform a single, static retrieval before generation and condition the entire generation on fixed reference images, AR-RAG performs context-aware retrievals at each generation step, using prior-generated patches as queries to retrieve and incorporate the most relevant patch-level visual references, enabling the model to respond to evolving generation needs while avoiding limitations (e.g., over-copying, stylistic bias, etc.) prevalent in existing methods. To realize AR-RAG, we propose two parallel frameworks: (1) Distribution-Augmentation in Decoding (DAiD), a training-free plug-and-use decoding strategy that directly merges the distribution of model-predicted patches with the distribution of retrieved patches, and (2) Feature-Augmentation in Decoding (FAiD), a parameter-efficient fine-tuning method that progressively smooths the features of retrieved patches via multi-scale convolution operations and leverages them to augment the image generation process. We validate the effectiveness of AR-RAG on widely adopted benchmarks, including Midjourney-30K, GenEval and DPG-Bench, demonstrating significant performance gains over state-of-the-art image generation models.

Paper ID: 2506.06962v3

Summary:
This paper titled "AR-RAG: Autoregressive Retrieval Augmentation for Image Generation" was authored by Jingyuan Qi, Zhiyang Xu, Qifan Wang, Lifu Huang and published on 2025-06-08.
It falls under the categories: cs.CV.
The research explores the following topic: We introduce Autoregressive Retrieval Augmentation (AR-RAG), a novel paradigm that enhances image generation by autoregressively incorporating knearest neighbor retrievals at the patch level. Unlike prior methods that perform a single, static retrieval before generation and condition the entire generation on fixed reference images, AR-RAG performs context-aware retrievals at each generation step, using prior-generated patches as queries to retrieve and incorporate the most relevant patch-level visual references, enabling the model to respond to evolving generation needs while avoiding limitations (e.g., over-copying, stylistic bias, etc.) prevalent in existing methods. To realize AR-RAG, we propose two parallel frameworks: (1) Distribution-Augmentation in Decoding (DAiD), a training-free plug-and-use decoding strategy that directly merges the distribution of model-predicted patches with the distribution of retrieved patches, and (2) Feature-Augmentation in Decoding (FAiD), a parameter-efficient fine-tuning method that progressively smooths the features of retrieved patches via multi-scale convolution operations and leverages them to augment the image generation process. We validate the effectiveness of AR-RAG on widely adopted benchmarks, including Midjourney-30K, GenEval and DPG-Bench, demonstrating significant performance gains over state-of-the-art image generation models.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.06962v3
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/2506.06962v3
