Title: LETS Forecast: Learning Embedology for Time Series Forecasting

Authors: Abrar Majeedi, Viswanatha Reddy Gajjala, Satya Sai Srinath Namburi GNVV, Nada Magdi Elkordi, Yin Li

Published: 2025-06-06

Categories: cs.LG, cs.AI, stat.ML

Abstract:
Real-world time series are often governed by complex nonlinear dynamics. Understanding these underlying dynamics is crucial for precise future prediction. While deep learning has achieved major success in time series forecasting, many existing approaches do not explicitly model the dynamics. To bridge this gap, we introduce DeepEDM, a framework that integrates nonlinear dynamical systems modeling with deep neural networks. Inspired by empirical dynamic modeling (EDM) and rooted in Takens' theorem, DeepEDM presents a novel deep model that learns a latent space from time-delayed embeddings, and employs kernel regression to approximate the underlying dynamics, while leveraging efficient implementation of softmax attention and allowing for accurate prediction of future time steps. To evaluate our method, we conduct comprehensive experiments on synthetic data of nonlinear dynamical systems as well as real-world time series across domains. Our results show that DeepEDM is robust to input noise, and outperforms state-of-the-art methods in forecasting accuracy. Our code is available at: https://abrarmajeedi.github.io/deep_edm.

Paper ID: 2506.06454v2

Summary:
This paper titled "LETS Forecast: Learning Embedology for Time Series Forecasting" was authored by Abrar Majeedi, Viswanatha Reddy Gajjala, Satya Sai Srinath Namburi GNVV, Nada Magdi Elkordi, Yin Li and published on 2025-06-06.
It falls under the categories: cs.LG, cs.AI, stat.ML.
The research explores the following topic: Real-world time series are often governed by complex nonlinear dynamics. Understanding these underlying dynamics is crucial for precise future prediction. While deep learning has achieved major success in time series forecasting, many existing approaches do not explicitly model the dynamics. To bridge this gap, we introduce DeepEDM, a framework that integrates nonlinear dynamical systems modeling with deep neural networks. Inspired by empirical dynamic modeling (EDM) and rooted in Takens' theorem, DeepEDM presents a novel deep model that learns a latent space from time-delayed embeddings, and employs kernel regression to approximate the underlying dynamics, while leveraging efficient implementation of softmax attention and allowing for accurate prediction of future time steps. To evaluate our method, we conduct comprehensive experiments on synthetic data of nonlinear dynamical systems as well as real-world time series across domains. Our results show that DeepEDM is robust to input noise, and outperforms state-of-the-art methods in forecasting accuracy. Our code is available at: https://abrarmajeedi.github.io/deep_edm.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/2506.06454v2
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/2506.06454v2
