Title: BERT4beam: Large AI Model Enabled Generalized Beamforming Optimization

Authors: Yuhang Li, Yang Lu, Wei Chen, Bo Ai, Zhiguo Ding

Published: 2025-09-14

Categories: eess.SY, cs.LG

Abstract:
Artificial intelligence (AI) is anticipated to emerge as a pivotal enabler for the forthcoming sixth-generation (6G) wireless communication systems. However, current research efforts regarding large AI models for wireless communications primarily focus on fine-tuning pre-trained large language models (LLMs) for specific tasks. This paper investigates the large-scale AI model designed for beamforming optimization to adapt and generalize to diverse tasks defined by system utilities and scales. We propose a novel framework based on bidirectional encoder representations from transformers (BERT), termed BERT4beam. We aim to formulate the beamforming optimization problem as a token-level sequence learning task, perform tokenization of the channel state information, construct the BERT model, and conduct task-specific pre-training and fine-tuning strategies. Based on the framework, we propose two BERT-based approaches for single-task and multi-task beamforming optimization, respectively. Both approaches are generalizable for varying user scales. Moreover, the former can adapt to varying system utilities and antenna configurations by re-configuring the input and output module of the BERT model, while the latter, termed UBERT, can directly generalize to diverse tasks, due to a finer-grained tokenization strategy. Extensive simulation results demonstrate that the two proposed approaches can achieve near-optimal performance and outperform existing AI models across various beamforming optimization tasks, showcasing strong adaptability and generalizability.

Paper ID: 2509.11056v2

Summary:
This paper titled "BERT4beam: Large AI Model Enabled Generalized Beamforming Optimization" was authored by Yuhang Li, Yang Lu, Wei Chen, Bo Ai, Zhiguo Ding and published on 2025-09-14.
It falls under the categories: eess.SY, cs.LG.
The research explores the following topic: Artificial intelligence (AI) is anticipated to emerge as a pivotal enabler for the forthcoming sixth-generation (6G) wireless communication systems. However, current research efforts regarding large AI models for wireless communications primarily focus on fine-tuning pre-trained large language models (LLMs) for specific tasks. This paper investigates the large-scale AI model designed for beamforming optimization to adapt and generalize to diverse tasks defined by system utilities and scales. We propose a novel framework based on bidirectional encoder representations from transformers (BERT), termed BERT4beam. We aim to formulate the beamforming optimization problem as a token-level sequence learning task, perform tokenization of the channel state information, construct the BERT model, and conduct task-specific pre-training and fine-tuning strategies. Based on the framework, we propose two BERT-based approaches for single-task and multi-task beamforming optimization, respectively. Both approaches are generalizable for varying user scales. Moreover, the former can adapt to varying system utilities and antenna configurations by re-configuring the input and output module of the BERT model, while the latter, termed UBERT, can directly generalize to diverse tasks, due to a finer-grained tokenization strategy. Extensive simulation results demonstrate that the two proposed approaches can achieve near-optimal performance and outperform existing AI models across various beamforming optimization tasks, showcasing strong adaptability and generalizability.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/2509.11056v2
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/2509.11056v2
