Title: RoboBallet: Planning for Multi-Robot Reaching with Graph Neural Networks and Reinforcement Learning

Authors: Matthew Lai, Keegan Go, Zhibin Li, Torsten Kroger, Stefan Schaal, Kelsey Allen, Jonathan Scholz

Published: 2025-09-05

Categories: cs.RO, cs.LG

Abstract:
Modern robotic manufacturing requires collision-free coordination of multiple robots to complete numerous tasks in shared, obstacle-rich workspaces. Although individual tasks may be simple in isolation, automated joint task allocation, scheduling, and motion planning under spatio-temporal constraints remain computationally intractable for classical methods at real-world scales. Existing multi-arm systems deployed in the industry rely on human intuition and experience to design feasible trajectories manually in a labor-intensive process. To address this challenge, we propose a reinforcement learning (RL) framework to achieve automated task and motion planning, tested in an obstacle-rich environment with eight robots performing 40 reaching tasks in a shared workspace, where any robot can perform any task in any order. Our approach builds on a graph neural network (GNN) policy trained via RL on procedurally-generated environments with diverse obstacle layouts, robot configurations, and task distributions. It employs a graph representation of scenes and a graph policy neural network trained through reinforcement learning to generate trajectories of multiple robots, jointly solving the sub-problems of task allocation, scheduling, and motion planning. Trained on large randomly generated task sets in simulation, our policy generalizes zero-shot to unseen settings with varying robot placements, obstacle geometries, and task poses. We further demonstrate that the high-speed capability of our solution enables its use in workcell layout optimization, improving solution times. The speed and scalability of our planner also open the door to new capabilities such as fault-tolerant planning and online perception-based re-planning, where rapid adaptation to dynamic task sets is required.

Paper ID: 2509.05397v1

Summary:
This paper titled "RoboBallet: Planning for Multi-Robot Reaching with Graph Neural Networks and Reinforcement Learning" was authored by Matthew Lai, Keegan Go, Zhibin Li, Torsten Kroger, Stefan Schaal, Kelsey Allen, Jonathan Scholz and published on 2025-09-05.
It falls under the categories: cs.RO, cs.LG.
The research explores the following topic: Modern robotic manufacturing requires collision-free coordination of multiple robots to complete numerous tasks in shared, obstacle-rich workspaces. Although individual tasks may be simple in isolation, automated joint task allocation, scheduling, and motion planning under spatio-temporal constraints remain computationally intractable for classical methods at real-world scales. Existing multi-arm systems deployed in the industry rely on human intuition and experience to design feasible trajectories manually in a labor-intensive process. To address this challenge, we propose a reinforcement learning (RL) framework to achieve automated task and motion planning, tested in an obstacle-rich environment with eight robots performing 40 reaching tasks in a shared workspace, where any robot can perform any task in any order. Our approach builds on a graph neural network (GNN) policy trained via RL on procedurally-generated environments with diverse obstacle layouts, robot configurations, and task distributions. It employs a graph representation of scenes and a graph policy neural network trained through reinforcement learning to generate trajectories of multiple robots, jointly solving the sub-problems of task allocation, scheduling, and motion planning. Trained on large randomly generated task sets in simulation, our policy generalizes zero-shot to unseen settings with varying robot placements, obstacle geometries, and task poses. We further demonstrate that the high-speed capability of our solution enables its use in workcell layout optimization, improving solution times. The speed and scalability of our planner also open the door to new capabilities such as fault-tolerant planning and online perception-based re-planning, where rapid adaptation to dynamic task sets is required.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/2509.05397v1
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/2509.05397v1
  - https://doi.org/10.1126/scirobotics.ads1204
