Title: Policies over Poses: Reinforcement Learning based Distributed Pose-Graph Optimization for Multi-Robot SLAM

Authors: Sai Krishna Ghanta, Ramviyas Parasuraman

Published: 2025-10-26

Categories: cs.RO, cs.AI, cs.MA

Abstract:
We consider the distributed pose-graph optimization (PGO) problem, which is fundamental in accurate trajectory estimation in multi-robot simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM). Conventional iterative approaches linearize a highly non-convex optimization objective, requiring repeated solving of normal equations, which often converge to local minima and thus produce suboptimal estimates. We propose a scalable, outlier-robust distributed planar PGO framework using Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning (MARL). We cast distributed PGO as a partially observable Markov game defined on local pose-graphs, where each action refines a single edge's pose estimate. A graph partitioner decomposes the global pose graph, and each robot runs a recurrent edge-conditioned Graph Neural Network (GNN) encoder with adaptive edge-gating to denoise noisy edges. Robots sequentially refine poses through a hybrid policy that utilizes prior action memory and graph embeddings. After local graph correction, a consensus scheme reconciles inter-robot disagreements to produce a globally consistent estimate. Our extensive evaluations on a comprehensive suite of synthetic and real-world datasets demonstrate that our learned MARL-based actors reduce the global objective by an average of 37.5% more than the state-of-the-art distributed PGO framework, while enhancing inference efficiency by at least 6X. We also demonstrate that actor replication allows a single learned policy to scale effortlessly to substantially larger robot teams without any retraining. Code is publicly available at https://github.com/herolab-uga/policies-over-poses.

Paper ID: 2510.22740v1

Summary:
This paper titled "Policies over Poses: Reinforcement Learning based Distributed Pose-Graph Optimization for Multi-Robot SLAM" was authored by Sai Krishna Ghanta, Ramviyas Parasuraman and published on 2025-10-26.
It falls under the categories: cs.RO, cs.AI, cs.MA.
The research explores the following topic: We consider the distributed pose-graph optimization (PGO) problem, which is fundamental in accurate trajectory estimation in multi-robot simultaneous localization and mapping (SLAM). Conventional iterative approaches linearize a highly non-convex optimization objective, requiring repeated solving of normal equations, which often converge to local minima and thus produce suboptimal estimates. We propose a scalable, outlier-robust distributed planar PGO framework using Multi-Agent Reinforcement Learning (MARL). We cast distributed PGO as a partially observable Markov game defined on local pose-graphs, where each action refines a single edge's pose estimate. A graph partitioner decomposes the global pose graph, and each robot runs a recurrent edge-conditioned Graph Neural Network (GNN) encoder with adaptive edge-gating to denoise noisy edges. Robots sequentially refine poses through a hybrid policy that utilizes prior action memory and graph embeddings. After local graph correction, a consensus scheme reconciles inter-robot disagreements to produce a globally consistent estimate. Our extensive evaluations on a comprehensive suite of synthetic and real-world datasets demonstrate that our learned MARL-based actors reduce the global objective by an average of 37.5% more than the state-of-the-art distributed PGO framework, while enhancing inference efficiency by at least 6X. We also demonstrate that actor replication allows a single learned policy to scale effortlessly to substantially larger robot teams without any retraining. Code is publicly available at https://github.com/herolab-uga/policies-over-poses.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/2510.22740v1
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/2510.22740v1
