Title: Pre-trained Forecasting Models: Strong Zero-Shot Feature Extractors for Time Series Classification

Authors: Andreas Auer, Daniel Klotz, Sebastinan Böck, Sepp Hochreiter

Published: 2025-10-30

Categories: cs.LG

Abstract:
Recent research on time series foundation models has primarily focused on forecasting, leaving it unclear how generalizable their learned representations are. In this study, we examine whether frozen pre-trained forecasting models can provide effective representations for classification. To this end, we compare different representation extraction strategies and introduce two model-agnostic embedding augmentations. Our experiments show that the best forecasting models achieve classification accuracy that matches or even surpasses that of state-of-the-art models pre-trained specifically for classification. Moreover, we observe a positive correlation between forecasting and classification performance. These findings challenge the assumption that task-specific pre-training is necessary, and suggest that learning to forecast may provide a powerful route toward constructing general-purpose time series foundation models.

Paper ID: 2510.26777v1

Summary:
This paper titled "Pre-trained Forecasting Models: Strong Zero-Shot Feature Extractors for Time Series Classification" was authored by Andreas Auer, Daniel Klotz, Sebastinan Böck, Sepp Hochreiter and published on 2025-10-30.
It falls under the categories: cs.LG.
The research explores the following topic: Recent research on time series foundation models has primarily focused on forecasting, leaving it unclear how generalizable their learned representations are. In this study, we examine whether frozen pre-trained forecasting models can provide effective representations for classification. To this end, we compare different representation extraction strategies and introduce two model-agnostic embedding augmentations. Our experiments show that the best forecasting models achieve classification accuracy that matches or even surpasses that of state-of-the-art models pre-trained specifically for classification. Moreover, we observe a positive correlation between forecasting and classification performance. These findings challenge the assumption that task-specific pre-training is necessary, and suggest that learning to forecast may provide a powerful route toward constructing general-purpose time series foundation models.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/2510.26777v1
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/2510.26777v1
