Title: Evaluating Open-Source Vision-Language Models for Multimodal Sarcasm Detection

Authors: Saroj Basnet, Shafkat Farabi, Tharindu Ranasinghe, Diptesh Kanoji, Marcos Zampieri

Published: 2025-10-13

Categories: cs.LG

Abstract:
Recent advances in open-source vision-language models (VLMs) offer new opportunities for understanding complex and subjective multimodal phenomena such as sarcasm. In this work, we evaluate seven state-of-the-art VLMs - BLIP2, InstructBLIP, OpenFlamingo, LLaVA, PaliGemma, Gemma3, and Qwen-VL - on their ability to detect multimodal sarcasm using zero-, one-, and few-shot prompting. Furthermore, we evaluate the models' capabilities in generating explanations to sarcastic instances. We evaluate the capabilities of VLMs on three benchmark sarcasm datasets (Muse, MMSD2.0, and SarcNet). Our primary objectives are twofold: (1) to quantify each model's performance in detecting sarcastic image-caption pairs, and (2) to assess their ability to generate human-quality explanations that highlight the visual-textual incongruities driving sarcasm. Our results indicate that, while current models achieve moderate success in binary sarcasm detection, they are still not able to generate high-quality explanations without task-specific finetuning.

Paper ID: 2510.11852v1

Summary:
This paper titled "Evaluating Open-Source Vision-Language Models for Multimodal Sarcasm Detection" was authored by Saroj Basnet, Shafkat Farabi, Tharindu Ranasinghe, Diptesh Kanoji, Marcos Zampieri and published on 2025-10-13.
It falls under the categories: cs.LG.
The research explores the following topic: Recent advances in open-source vision-language models (VLMs) offer new opportunities for understanding complex and subjective multimodal phenomena such as sarcasm. In this work, we evaluate seven state-of-the-art VLMs - BLIP2, InstructBLIP, OpenFlamingo, LLaVA, PaliGemma, Gemma3, and Qwen-VL - on their ability to detect multimodal sarcasm using zero-, one-, and few-shot prompting. Furthermore, we evaluate the models' capabilities in generating explanations to sarcastic instances. We evaluate the capabilities of VLMs on three benchmark sarcasm datasets (Muse, MMSD2.0, and SarcNet). Our primary objectives are twofold: (1) to quantify each model's performance in detecting sarcastic image-caption pairs, and (2) to assess their ability to generate human-quality explanations that highlight the visual-textual incongruities driving sarcasm. Our results indicate that, while current models achieve moderate success in binary sarcasm detection, they are still not able to generate high-quality explanations without task-specific finetuning.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/2510.11852v1
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/2510.11852v1
