Title: TaCarla: A comprehensive benchmarking dataset for end-to-end autonomous driving

Authors: Tugrul Gorgulu, Atakan Dag, M. Esat Kalfaoglu, Halil Ibrahim Kuru, Baris Can Cam, Halil Ibrahim Ozturk, Ozsel Kilinc

Published: 2026-02-26

Categories: cs.RO, cs.AI

Abstract:
Collecting a high-quality dataset is a critical task that demands meticulous attention to detail, as overlooking certain aspects can render the entire dataset unusable. Autonomous driving challenges remain a prominent area of research, requiring further exploration to enhance the perception and planning performance of vehicles. However, existing datasets are often incomplete. For instance, datasets that include perception information generally lack planning data, while planning datasets typically consist of extensive driving sequences where the ego vehicle predominantly drives forward, offering limited behavioral diversity. In addition, many real datasets struggle to evaluate their models, especially for planning tasks, since they lack a proper closed-loop evaluation setup. The CARLA Leaderboard 2.0 challenge, which provides a diverse set of scenarios to address the long-tail problem in autonomous driving, has emerged as a valuable alternative platform for developing perception and planning models in both open-loop and closed-loop evaluation setups. Nevertheless, existing datasets collected on this platform present certain limitations. Some datasets appear to be tailored primarily for limited sensor configuration, with particular sensor configurations. To support end-to-end autonomous driving research, we have collected a new dataset comprising over 2.85 million frames using the CARLA simulation environment for the diverse Leaderboard 2.0 challenge scenarios. Our dataset is designed not only for planning tasks but also supports dynamic object detection, lane divider detection, centerline detection, traffic light recognition, prediction tasks and visual language action models . Furthermore, we demonstrate its versatility by training various models using our dataset. Moreover, we also provide numerical rarity scores to understand how rarely the current state occurs in the dataset.

Paper ID: 2602.23499v4

Summary:
This paper titled "TaCarla: A comprehensive benchmarking dataset for end-to-end autonomous driving" was authored by Tugrul Gorgulu, Atakan Dag, M. Esat Kalfaoglu, Halil Ibrahim Kuru, Baris Can Cam, Halil Ibrahim Ozturk, Ozsel Kilinc and published on 2026-02-26.
It falls under the categories: cs.RO, cs.AI.
The research explores the following topic: Collecting a high-quality dataset is a critical task that demands meticulous attention to detail, as overlooking certain aspects can render the entire dataset unusable. Autonomous driving challenges remain a prominent area of research, requiring further exploration to enhance the perception and planning performance of vehicles. However, existing datasets are often incomplete. For instance, datasets that include perception information generally lack planning data, while planning datasets typically consist of extensive driving sequences where the ego vehicle predominantly drives forward, offering limited behavioral diversity. In addition, many real datasets struggle to evaluate their models, especially for planning tasks, since they lack a proper closed-loop evaluation setup. The CARLA Leaderboard 2.0 challenge, which provides a diverse set of scenarios to address the long-tail problem in autonomous driving, has emerged as a valuable alternative platform for developing perception and planning models in both open-loop and closed-loop evaluation setups. Nevertheless, existing datasets collected on this platform present certain limitations. Some datasets appear to be tailored primarily for limited sensor configuration, with particular sensor configurations. To support end-to-end autonomous driving research, we have collected a new dataset comprising over 2.85 million frames using the CARLA simulation environment for the diverse Leaderboard 2.0 challenge scenarios. Our dataset is designed not only for planning tasks but also supports dynamic object detection, lane divider detection, centerline detection, traffic light recognition, prediction tasks and visual language action models . Furthermore, we demonstrate its versatility by training various models using our dataset. Moreover, we also provide numerical rarity scores to understand how rarely the current state occurs in the dataset.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/2602.23499v4
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/2602.23499v4
