Title: Conversational Control with Ontologies for Large Language Models: A Lightweight Framework for Constrained Generation

Authors: Barbara Gendron, Gaël Guibon, Mathieu d'Aquin

Published: 2026-04-06

Categories: cs.CL, cs.AI

Abstract:
Conversational agents based on Large Language Models (LLMs) have recently emerged as powerful tools for human-computer interaction. Nevertheless, their black-box nature implies challenges in predictability and a lack of personalization, both of which can be addressed by controlled generation. This work proposes an end-to-end method to obtain modular and explainable control over LLM outputs through ontological definitions of aspects related to the conversation. Key aspects are modeled and used as constraints; we then further fine-tune the LLM to generate content accordingly. To validate our approach, we explore two tasks that tackle two key conversational aspects: the English proficiency level and the polarity profile of the content. Using a hybrid fine-tuning procedure on seven state-of-the-art, open-weight conversational LLMs, we show that our method consistently outperforms pre-trained baselines, even on smaller models. Beyond quantitative gains, the framework remains model-agnostic, lightweight, and interpretable, enabling reusable control strategies that can be extended to new domains and interaction goals. This approach enhances alignment with strategy instructions and demonstrates the effectiveness of ontology-driven control in conversational systems.

Paper ID: 2604.04450v1

Summary:
This paper titled "Conversational Control with Ontologies for Large Language Models: A Lightweight Framework for Constrained Generation" was authored by Barbara Gendron, Gaël Guibon, Mathieu d'Aquin and published on 2026-04-06.
It falls under the categories: cs.CL, cs.AI.
The research explores the following topic: Conversational agents based on Large Language Models (LLMs) have recently emerged as powerful tools for human-computer interaction. Nevertheless, their black-box nature implies challenges in predictability and a lack of personalization, both of which can be addressed by controlled generation. This work proposes an end-to-end method to obtain modular and explainable control over LLM outputs through ontological definitions of aspects related to the conversation. Key aspects are modeled and used as constraints; we then further fine-tune the LLM to generate content accordingly. To validate our approach, we explore two tasks that tackle two key conversational aspects: the English proficiency level and the polarity profile of the content. Using a hybrid fine-tuning procedure on seven state-of-the-art, open-weight conversational LLMs, we show that our method consistently outperforms pre-trained baselines, even on smaller models. Beyond quantitative gains, the framework remains model-agnostic, lightweight, and interpretable, enabling reusable control strategies that can be extended to new domains and interaction goals. This approach enhances alignment with strategy instructions and demonstrates the effectiveness of ontology-driven control in conversational systems.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/2604.04450v1
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/2604.04450v1
