Title: Advancing automatic speech recognition using feature fusion with self-supervised learning features: A case study on Fearless Steps Apollo corpus

Authors: Szu-Jui Chen, John H. L. Hansen

Published: 2026-04-24

Categories: eess.AS, cs.SD

Abstract:
Using self-supervised learning (SSL) models has significantly improved performance for downstream speech tasks, surpassing the capabilities of traditional hand-crafted features. This study investigates the amalgamation of SSL models, with the aim to leverage both their individual strengths and refine extracted features to achieve improved speech recognition models for naturalistic scenarios. Our research investigates the massive naturalistic Fearless Steps (FS) APOLLO resource, with particular focus on the FS Challenge (FSC) Phase-4 corpus, providing the inaugural analysis of this dataset. Additionally, we incorporate the CHiME-6 dataset to evaluate performance across diverse naturalistic speech scenarios. While exploring previously proposed Feature Refinement Loss and fusion methods, we found these methods to be less effective on the FSC Phase-4 corpus. To address this, we introduce a novel deep cross-attention (DCA) fusion method, designed to elevate performance, especially for the FSC Phase-4 corpus. Our objective is to foster creation of superior FS APOLLO community resources, catering to the diverse needs of researchers across various disciplines. The proposed solution achieves an absolute +1.1% improvement in WER, providing effective meta-data creation for the massive FS APOLLO community resource.

Paper ID: 2604.22203v1

Summary:
This paper titled "Advancing automatic speech recognition using feature fusion with self-supervised learning features: A case study on Fearless Steps Apollo corpus" was authored by Szu-Jui Chen, John H. L. Hansen and published on 2026-04-24.
It falls under the categories: eess.AS, cs.SD.
The research explores the following topic: Using self-supervised learning (SSL) models has significantly improved performance for downstream speech tasks, surpassing the capabilities of traditional hand-crafted features. This study investigates the amalgamation of SSL models, with the aim to leverage both their individual strengths and refine extracted features to achieve improved speech recognition models for naturalistic scenarios. Our research investigates the massive naturalistic Fearless Steps (FS) APOLLO resource, with particular focus on the FS Challenge (FSC) Phase-4 corpus, providing the inaugural analysis of this dataset. Additionally, we incorporate the CHiME-6 dataset to evaluate performance across diverse naturalistic speech scenarios. While exploring previously proposed Feature Refinement Loss and fusion methods, we found these methods to be less effective on the FSC Phase-4 corpus. To address this, we introduce a novel deep cross-attention (DCA) fusion method, designed to elevate performance, especially for the FSC Phase-4 corpus. Our objective is to foster creation of superior FS APOLLO community resources, catering to the diverse needs of researchers across various disciplines. The proposed solution achieves an absolute +1.1% improvement in WER, providing effective meta-data creation for the massive FS APOLLO community resource.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/2604.22203v1
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/2604.22203v1
  - https://doi.org/10.1016/j.specom.2026.103380
