Title: From Model-Based Screening to Data-Driven Surrogates: A Multi-Stage Workflow for Exploring Stochastic Agent-Based Models

Authors: Paul Saves, Matthieu Mastio, Nicolas Verstaevel, Benoit Gaudou

Published: 2026-04-03

Categories: cs.LG, cs.AI

Abstract:
Systematic exploration of Agent-Based Models (ABMs) is challenged by the curse of dimensionality and their inherent stochasticity. We present a multi-stage pipeline integrating the systematic design of experiments with machine learning surrogates. Using a predator-prey case study, our methodology proceeds in two steps. First, an automated model-based screening identifies dominant variables, assesses outcome variability, and segments the parameter space. Second, we train Machine Learning models to map the remaining nonlinear interaction effects. This approach automates the discovery of unstable regions where system outcomes are highly dependent on nonlinear interactions between many variables. Thus, this work provides modelers with a rigorous, hands-off framework for sensitivity analysis and policy testing, even when dealing with high-dimensional stochastic simulators.

Paper ID: 2604.03350v1

Summary:
This paper titled "From Model-Based Screening to Data-Driven Surrogates: A Multi-Stage Workflow for Exploring Stochastic Agent-Based Models" was authored by Paul Saves, Matthieu Mastio, Nicolas Verstaevel, Benoit Gaudou and published on 2026-04-03.
It falls under the categories: cs.LG, cs.AI.
The research explores the following topic: Systematic exploration of Agent-Based Models (ABMs) is challenged by the curse of dimensionality and their inherent stochasticity. We present a multi-stage pipeline integrating the systematic design of experiments with machine learning surrogates. Using a predator-prey case study, our methodology proceeds in two steps. First, an automated model-based screening identifies dominant variables, assesses outcome variability, and segments the parameter space. Second, we train Machine Learning models to map the remaining nonlinear interaction effects. This approach automates the discovery of unstable regions where system outcomes are highly dependent on nonlinear interactions between many variables. Thus, this work provides modelers with a rigorous, hands-off framework for sensitivity analysis and policy testing, even when dealing with high-dimensional stochastic simulators.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/2604.03350v1
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/2604.03350v1
