Title: Multilingual and Multimodal LLMs in the Wild: Building for Low-Resource Languages

Authors: Firoj Alam, Shammur Absar Chowdhury, Enamul Hoque Prince

Published: 2026-05-16

Categories: cs.CL

Abstract:
Multimodal LLMs are evolving from vision-language to tri-modality that see, hear, and read, yet pipelines and benchmarks remain English-centric and compute-heavy. The tutorial offers an overview of this emerging research area for multilingual multimodality across text, speech, and vision under limited data/compute budgets, synthesizing foundations, recent multilingual models (PALO, Maya), speech-text LLMs. We cover low-cost data creation/curation; adapter stacks for tri-modal alignment; culture-aware evaluation beyond English and hands on resources for fine-tuning a compact multilingual VLM and wiring a speech->text->LLM pipeline. The content will be delivered as an interactive half-day tutorial, designed for researchers and practitioners working on multilingual, multimodal AI in low-resource language settings.

Paper ID: 2605.17152v1

Summary:
This paper titled "Multilingual and Multimodal LLMs in the Wild: Building for Low-Resource Languages" was authored by Firoj Alam, Shammur Absar Chowdhury, Enamul Hoque Prince and published on 2026-05-16.
It falls under the categories: cs.CL.
The research explores the following topic: Multimodal LLMs are evolving from vision-language to tri-modality that see, hear, and read, yet pipelines and benchmarks remain English-centric and compute-heavy. The tutorial offers an overview of this emerging research area for multilingual multimodality across text, speech, and vision under limited data/compute budgets, synthesizing foundations, recent multilingual models (PALO, Maya), speech-text LLMs. We cover low-cost data creation/curation; adapter stacks for tri-modal alignment; culture-aware evaluation beyond English and hands on resources for fine-tuning a compact multilingual VLM and wiring a speech->text->LLM pipeline. The content will be delivered as an interactive half-day tutorial, designed for researchers and practitioners working on multilingual, multimodal AI in low-resource language settings.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/2605.17152v1
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/2605.17152v1
