Title: The Dynamics of Human and AI-Generated Language: How Semantics Fluctuates across Different Timescales

Authors: Han-Jen Chang, Yasir Çatal, Angelika Wolman, Agustín Ibáñez, David Smith, I-Wen Su, Kai-Yuan Cheng, Georg Northoff

Published: 2026-06-09

Categories: cs.CL, cs.AI, eess.AS, eess.SP

Abstract:
Spoken language, whether produced by humans or large language models (LLM), unfolds over time with varying semantic content. However, we still lack simple, interpretable time-series features that capture how generic versus specific content is distributed over time, and that can be used to compare human and AI-generated speech. We introduce a semantic-timescale analysis pipeline that turns word-level transcripts with timestamps into semantic time-series. For each spoken narrative, we compute (i) semantic specificity using WordNet-based word depth and (ii) contextual similarity using SBERT embeddings and quantify their temporal dependence using autocorrelation-window measures (ACW-0 and related metrics). We then compare original speech to multiple shuffled controls that selectively disrupt lexical identity, temporal order, and word duration. Across human-read autobiographical narratives, TTS readings, and LLM-generated texts rendered with TTS, we find that segments with longer ACW-0 in the semantic time-series tend to contain more generic vocabulary, whereas segments with shorter ACW-0 are enriched in more specific words. These associations are strongly attenuated or abolished when word order and timing are randomized, indicating that ACW-based measures capture non-trivial temporal organization of semantic content beyond static lexical distributions. Our results suggest that ACW-based semantic timescales are a useful family of features for analyzing and comparing the temporal structure of human and AI-generated speech.

Paper ID: 2606.11371v1

Summary:
This paper titled "The Dynamics of Human and AI-Generated Language: How Semantics Fluctuates across Different Timescales" was authored by Han-Jen Chang, Yasir Çatal, Angelika Wolman, Agustín Ibáñez, David Smith, I-Wen Su, Kai-Yuan Cheng, Georg Northoff and published on 2026-06-09.
It falls under the categories: cs.CL, cs.AI, eess.AS, eess.SP.
The research explores the following topic: Spoken language, whether produced by humans or large language models (LLM), unfolds over time with varying semantic content. However, we still lack simple, interpretable time-series features that capture how generic versus specific content is distributed over time, and that can be used to compare human and AI-generated speech. We introduce a semantic-timescale analysis pipeline that turns word-level transcripts with timestamps into semantic time-series. For each spoken narrative, we compute (i) semantic specificity using WordNet-based word depth and (ii) contextual similarity using SBERT embeddings and quantify their temporal dependence using autocorrelation-window measures (ACW-0 and related metrics). We then compare original speech to multiple shuffled controls that selectively disrupt lexical identity, temporal order, and word duration. Across human-read autobiographical narratives, TTS readings, and LLM-generated texts rendered with TTS, we find that segments with longer ACW-0 in the semantic time-series tend to contain more generic vocabulary, whereas segments with shorter ACW-0 are enriched in more specific words. These associations are strongly attenuated or abolished when word order and timing are randomized, indicating that ACW-based measures capture non-trivial temporal organization of semantic content beyond static lexical distributions. Our results suggest that ACW-based semantic timescales are a useful family of features for analyzing and comparing the temporal structure of human and AI-generated speech.

Links:
  - https://arxiv.org/abs/2606.11371v1
  - https://arxiv.org/pdf/2606.11371v1
  - https://doi.org/10.1016/j.csl.2026.102013
