Title: arXiv paper 1002

Categories: 2

Abstract:
Generalized Value Iteration Networks:
Life Beyond Lattices
Sufeng Niu∗† Siheng Chen∗‡ , Hanyu Guo∗† , Colin Targonski† , Melissa C. Smith† , Jelena Kovačević‡
†

arXiv:1706.02416v2 [cs.LG] 26 Oct 2017

‡

Clemson University, 433 Calhoun Dr., Clemson, SC 29634, USA
Carnegie Mellon University, 5000 Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA 15213, USA

Abstract
In this paper, we introduce a generalized value iteration network (GVIN), which is an end-to-end neural network planning
module. GVIN emulates the value iteration algorithm by using
a novel graph convolution operator, which enables GVIN to
learn and plan on irregular spatial graphs. We propose three
novel differentiable kernels as graph convolution operators
and show that the embedding-based kernel achieves the best
performance. Furthermore, we present episodic Q-learning,
an improvement upon traditional n-step Q-learning that stabilizes training for VIN and GVIN. Lastly, we evaluate GVIN
on planning problems in 2D mazes, irregular graphs, and realworld street networks, showing that GVIN generalizes well
for both arbitrary graphs and unseen graphs of larger scale
and outperforms a naive generalization of VIN (discretizing a
spatial graph into a 2D image).

Introduction
Reinforcement learning (RL) is a technique that solves
sequential decision making problems that lacks explicit rules
and labels (Sutton and Barto 1998). Recent developments
in Deep Reinforcement Learning(DRL) have lead to enormous progress in autonomous driving (Bojarski et al. 2016),
innovation in robot control (Levine et al. 2015), and humanlevel performance in both Atari games (Mnih et al. 2013;
Guo et al. 2014) and the board game Go (Silver et al. 2016a).
Given a reinforcement learning task, the agent explores the
underlying Markov Decision Process (MDP) (Bellman 1957;
Bertsekas et al. 1995) and attempts to learn a mapping
of high-dimensional state space data to an optimal policy
that maximizes the expected return. Reinforcement learning can be categorized as model-free (Lillicrap et al. 2015;
Mnih et al. 2016; 2013) and model-based approaches (Sutton and Barto 1998; Deisenroth and Rasmussen 2011;
Schmidhuber 1990). Model-free approaches learn the policy
directly by trial-and-error and attempt to avoid bias caused
by a suboptimal environment model (Sutton and Barto 1998);
the majority of recent architectures for DRL follow the
model-free approach (Lillicrap et al. 2015; Mnih et al. 2016;
2013). Model-based approaches, on the other hand, allow
for an agent to explicitly learn the mechanisms of an environment, which can lead to strong generalization abilities. A
∗

Equal contribution.
Copyright c 2018, Association for the Advancement of Artificial
Intelligence (www.aaai.org). All rights reserved.

recent work, the value iteration networks (VIN) (Tamar et al.
2016) combines recurrent convolutional neural networks and
max-pooling to emulate the process of value iteration (Bellman 1957; Bertsekas et al. 1995). As VIN learns an environment, it can plan shortest paths for unseen mazes.
The input data fed into deep learning systems is usually associated with regular structures. For example, speech
signals and natural language have an underlying 1D sequential structure; images have an underlying 2D lattice
structure. To take advantage of this regularly structured
data, deep learning uses a series of basic operations defined for the regular domain, such as convolution and uniform pooling. However, not all data is contained in regular structures. In urban science, traffic information is associated with road networks; in neuroscience, brain activity
is associated with brain connectivity networks; in social
sciences, users’ profile information is associated with social networks. To learn from data with irregular structure,
some recent works have extended the lattice structure to general graphs (Defferrard, Bresson, and Vandergheynst 2016;
Kipf and Welling 2016) and redefined convolution and pooling operations on graphs; however, most works only evaluate
data that has both a fixed and given graph. In addition, most
lack the ability to generalize to new, unseen environments.
In this paper, we aim to enable an agent to self-learn and
plan the optimal path in new, unseen spatial graphs by using model-based DRL and graph-based techniques. This task
is relevant to many real-world applications, such as route
planning of self-driving cars and web crawling/navigation.
The proposed method is more general than classical DRL,
extending for irregular structures. Furthermore, the proposed
method is scalable (computational complexity is proportional
to the number of edges in the testing graph), handles various
edge weight settings and adaptively learns the environment
model. Note that the optimal path can be self-defined, and is
not necessarily the shortest one. Additionally, the proposed
work differs from conventional planning algorithms; for example, Dijkstra’s algorithm requires a known model, while
GVIN aims to learn a general model via trial and error, then
apply said model to new, unseen irregular graphs.
To create GVIN, we generalize VIN in two aspects. First,
to work for irregular graphs, we propose a graph convolution
operator that generalizes the original 2D convolution operator. With the new graph convolution operator, the proposed

network captures the basic concepts in spatial graphs, such
as direction, distance and edge weight. It also is able to transfer knowledge learned from one graph to others. Second, to
improve reinforcement learning on irregular graphs, we propose a reinforcement learning algorithm, episodic Q-learning,
which stabilizes the training for VIN and GVIN. The original VIN is trained through either imitation learning, which
requires a large number of ground-truth labels, or reinforcement learning, whose performance is relatively poor. With
the proposed episodic Q-learning, the new network performs
significantly better than VIN in the reinforcement learning
mode. Since the proposed network generalizes the original
VIN model, we call it the generalized value iteration network
(GVIN).
The main contributions of this paper are:
• The proposed architecture, GVIN, generalizes the VIN
(Tamar et al. 2016) to handle both regular structures and irregular structures. GVIN offers an end-to-end architecture
trained via reinforcement learning (no ground-truth labels);
see Section Framework;
• The proposed graph convolution operator generalizes 2D
convolution learns the concepts of direction and distance,
which enables GVIN to transfer knowledge from one graph
to another; see Section Graph Convolution;
• The proposed reinforcement learning algorithm, episodic
Q-learning, extends the classical n-step Q-learning as Monte
Carlo control and significantly improves the performance of
reinforcement learning for irregular graphs; see Section Training via Reinforcement Learning; and
• Through intensive experiments we demonstrate the generalization ability of GVIN within imitation learning and
episodic Q-learning for various datasets, including synthetic
2D maze data, irregular graphs, and real-world maps (Minnesota highway and New York street maps); we show that
GVIN significantly outperforms VIN with discretization input on irregular structures; See Section Experimental Results.

Background
Markov Decision Process. We consider an environment
defined as an MDP that contains a set of states s ∈ S, a
set of actions a ∈ A, a reward function Rs,a , and a series
of transition probabilities Ps0 ,s,a , the probability of moving
from the current state s to the next state s0 given an action a.
The goal of an MDP is to find a policy that maximizes
the
P∞
expected return (accumulated rewards) Rt = k=0 γ k rt+k ,
where rt+k is the immediate reward at the (t + k)th time
stamp and γ ∈ (0, 1] is the discount rate. A policy πa,s is
the probability of taking action a when in state s. The value
of state s under a policy π, vsπ , is the expected return when
starting in s and following π; that is, vsπ = E[Rt |St = s].
The value of taking action a in state s under a policy π, qπ (a)
s ,
is the expected return when starting in s, taking the action
a and following π; that is, qπ (a)
= E[Rt |St = s, At = a].
s
There is at least one policy that is better than or equal to all
other policies, called an optimal policy π ∗ ; that is, the optimal
policy is π ∗ = arg maxπ vsπ , the optimal state-value function
is vs∗ = maxπ vsπ , and the optimal action-value function
∗
∗
is q∗ (a)
= maxπ qπ (a)
s
s . To obtain π and v , we usually
consider solving the Bellman equation. Value iteration is a

popular algorithm used to solve the Bellman equation in the
discrete
Pstate space; that is, we iteratively compute vs ←
maxa s0 Ps0 ,s,a (Rs,a +γvs0 ) until convergence.
Differentiable planning module. VIN employs an embedded differentiable planning architecture, trained end-toend via imitation learning (Tamar et al. 2016). In VIN, the
Bellman equation is encoded within the convolutional neural networks, and the policy can be obtained through backpropagation. However, VIN is limited to regular lattices; it
requires imitation learning for maximum performance and is
trained separately with a reactive policy. A more recent work
Memory Augmented Control Network (MACN) (Khan et al.
2017) combines the VIN model with a memory augmented
controller, which can then backtrack through the history of
previous trajectories. However, as we shown later in Table 2,
GVIN outperform MACN on both performance and problem scales. A different model-based work, Predictron, uses a
learning and planning model that simulates a Markov reward
process (Silver et al. 2016b). The architecture unrolls the
"imagined" plan via a predictron core. However, Predictron
is limited to the Markov rewards process and is relatively
computationally expensive compared to VIN.
Deep Learning with Graphs. A number of recent works
consider using neural networks to handle signals supported
on graphs (Niepert, Ahmed, and Kutzkov 2016; Duvenaud
et al. 2015; Henaff, Bruna, and LeCun 2015). The principal
idea is to generalize basic operations in the regular domain,
such as filtering and pooling, to the graph domain based
on spectral graph theory. For example, (Bruna et al. 2013;
Henaff, Bruna, and LeCun 2015) introduce hierarchical clustering on graphs and the spectrum of the graph Laplacian to
neural networks; (Defferrard, Bresson, and Vandergheynst
2016) generalizes classical convolutional neural networks by
using graph coarsening and localized convolutional graph
filtering; (Kipf and Welling 2016) considers semi-supervised
learning with graphs by using graph-based convolutional
neural networks; (Li et al. 2015) investigate learning graph
structure through gated recurrent unit; (Gilmer et al. 2017)
considers a message passing framework that unifies previous
work, see some recent overviews in (Bronstein et al. 2016).

Methodology
We propose a new model-based DRL framework, GVIN,
that takes a general graph with a starting node and a goal
node as inputs and outputs the designed plan. The goal of
GVIN is to learn an underlying MDP that summarizes the
optimal planning policy applied for arbitrary graphs, which
requires GVIN to capture general knowledge about planning
that is structure and transition invariant and does not depend
on any specific graph structure. A key component of an MDP
is the transition matrix, which is needed to solve the Bellman
equation. To train a general transition matrix that works for
arbitrary graphs, similar to the VIN, we treat it as a graph
convolution operator and parameterize it by using graphbased kernel functions, each of which represents a unique
action pattern. We train the parameters in GVIN by using
episodic Q-learning, which makes reinforcement learning on
irregular graphs practical.

Figure 1: Architecture of GVIN. The left module emulates value iteration and obtains the state values; the right module is
responsible for selecting an action based on an -greedy policy (for training) or a greed policy (for testing). We emphasize our
contributions, including graph convolution operator and episodic Q-learning, in the blue blocks.

Framework
The input of GVIN is a graph with a starting node and a
goal node. In the training phase, GVIN trains the parameters
by trial-and-error on various graphs; during the testing phase,
GVIN plans the optimal path based on the trained parameters.
The framework includes the planning module (left) and the
action module (right), shown in Figure 1. The planning module emulates value iteration by iteratively operating the graph
convolution and max-pooling. The action module takes the
greedy action according to the value function.
Mathematically, we consider a directed, weighted spatial
graph G = (V, X, E, A), where V = {v1 , ..., vN } is the
node set, X ∈ RN ×2 are the node embeddings with the ith
row Xi ∈ R2 being the embedding of the ith node (here we
consider 2D spatial graphs, but the method is generalizable),
E = {e1 , ..., eM } is the edge set, and A ∈ RN ×N is the
adjacency matrix, with the (i, j)th element Ai,j representing
the edge weight between the ith and jth nodes. We consider
a graph signal as a mapping from the nodes to real values.
We use a graph signal g ∈ {0, 1}N to encode the goal node,
where g is one-sparse and only activates the goal node. Let
r ∈ RN , v ∈ RN , and q ∈ RN be the reward graph signal,
the state-value graph signal, and the action-value graph signal,
respectively. We represent the entire process in a matrixvector form as follows,

P

r

=

fR (g; wr ),

(1)

(a)

=

fP (G; wP(a) ),

(2)

(a)
qn+1

vn+1

(a)

=

P

(r + γvn ) ,

=

(a)
max qn+1 .
a

(3)
(4)

In the feature-extraction step (1), g is encoded to become
the robust reward r via the feature-extract function fR (·),
which is a convolutional neural network in the case of regular graphs, but is the identity function when operating on
irregular graphs; in step (2), where P(a) is the graph convolution operator in the ath channel, a set of graph convolution
operators is trained based on the graph G, which is further
described in Section Graph Convolution; in (3) and (4), value
iteration is emulated by using graph convolution to obtain

the action-value graph signal q(a) in the ath channel and
max-pooling to obtain the state-value graph signal v. wr and
wP(a) are training parameters to parameterize r and P(a) ,
respectively. As shown in Figure 1, we repeat the graph convolution operation (3) and max-pooling (4) for K iterations
b . When G is a 2D
to obtain the final state-value graph signal v
lattice, the planning module of GVIN degenerates to VIN.
In the training phase, we feed the final state-value graph
b to the action module. The original VIN extracts
signal v
the action values from step (3) and trains the final action
probabilities for eight directions; however, this is problematic
for irregular graphs, as the number of actions (neighbors) at
b
each node varies. To solve this, we consider converting v
b ∈ RN , whose sth
to a pseudo action-value graph signal, q
bs = maxs0 ∈Nei(s) v
bs0 , representing the action
element is q
value moving from s to one of its neighbors. The advantages
of this approach come from the following three aspects: (1)
the final state value of each node is obtained by using the
maximum action values across all the channels, which is
robust to small variations; (2) the pseudo action-value graph
signal considers a unique action for each node and does not
depend on the number of actions; that is, at each node, the
agent queries the state values of its neighbors and always
moves to the one with the highest value; and (3) the pseudo
action-value graph signal considers local graph structure,
because the next state is always chosen from one of the
neighbors of the current state.
The pseudo action-value graph signal is used through
episodic Q-learning, which learns from trial-and-error experience and backpropagates to update all of the training parameters. In episodic Q-learning, each episode is obtained as
follows: for each given starting node s0 , the agent will move
sequentially from st to st+1 by the -greedy strategy; that
bs0
is, with probability (1 − ), st+1 = arg maxs0 ∈Nei(st ) v
and with probability , st+1 is randomly selected from
one of the neighbors of st . An episode terminates when
st+1 is the goal state or the maximum step threshold is
reached. For each episode, we consider the loss function
PT
bst )2 , where q
bst is a function of
as, L(w) = t=1 (Rt − q
the training parameters w = [wr , wP(a) ] in GVIN, T is the
episode length and Rt is the expected return at time stamp t,

defined as Rt = (rt+1 + γRt+1 ), where γ is the discount factor, and rt is the immediate return at time stamp t. Additional
details of the algorithm will be discussed in Section Training
via Reinforcement Learning. In the testing phase, we obtain
the action by greedily selecting the maximal state value; that
bs0 .
is, st+1 = arg maxs0 ∈Nei(st ) v

Graph Convolution
The conventional CNN takes an image as input, which is
a 2D lattice graph. Each node is a pixel and has the same
local structure, sitting on a grid and connecting to its eight
neighbors. In this case, the convolution operator is easy to
obtain. In irregular graphs, however, nodes form diverse local
structures, making it challenging to obtain a structured and
translation invariant operator that transfers knowledge from
one graph to another. The fundamental problem here is to
find a convolution operator that works for arbitrary local
structures. We solve this through learning a 2D spatial kernel
function that provides a transition probability distribution in
the 2D space, and according to which we evaluate the weight
of each edge and obtain a graph convolution operator.
The 2D spatial kernel function assigns a value to each
position in the 2D space, which reflects the possibility to
transit to the corresponding position. Mathematically, the
transition probability from a starting position x ∈ R2 to
another position y ∈ R2 is K(x, y), where K(·, ·) is a 2D
spatial kernel function, which will be specified later.
Definition 1. A 2D spatial kernel function K(·, ·) is shift
invariant when it satisfies K(x, y) = K(x + t, y + t), for
all x, y, t ∈ R2 .
The shift invariance requires that the transition probability
depend on the relative position, which is the key for transfer learning; in other words, no matter where the starting
position is, the transition probability distribution is invariant. Based on a shift-invariant 2D spatial kernel function
and the graph adjacency matrix, we obtain the graph convolution operator P = fP (G; wP ) ∈ RN ×N , where each
element Pi,j = Ai,j ·KwP (Xi , Xj ), where the kernel function KwP (·, ·) is parameterized by wP and Xi , Xj ∈ R2 are
the embeddings of the ith and jth node. The graph convolution operator follows from (1) graph connectivity and (2) 2D
spatial kernel function. With the shift-invariant property, the
2D spatial kernel function leads to the same local transition
distribution at each node; the graph adjacency matrix works
as a modulator to select activations in the graph convolution
operator. When there is no edge between i and j, we have
Ai,j = 0 and Pi,j = 0; when there is an edge between i and
j, Pi,j is high when KwP (Xi , Xj ) is high; in other words,
when the transition probability from the ith node to the jth
node is higher, the edge weight Pi,j is high and the influence
from the ith node to the jth node is bigger during the graph
convolution. Note that P is a sparse matrix and its sparsity
pattern is the same with its corresponding adjacency matrix,
which ensures cheap computation.
As shown in (2), the graph convolution is a matrix-vector
multiplication between the graph convolution operator P and
the graph signal r + γvn ; see Figure 2. Note that when we
work with a lattice graph and an appropriate kernel function,

this graph convolution operator P is nothing but a matrix representation of the conventional convolution (LeCun, Bengio,
and others ); in other words, VIN is a special case of GVIN
when the underlying graph is a 2D lattice; see more details in
Supplementary Graph-based Kernel Functions.
We consider three types of shift-invariant 2D spatial kernel
functions: the directional kernel, the spatial kernel, and the
embedding kernel.

Figure 2: Matrix-vector multiplication as graph convolution.
Through a graph convolution operator P, r + γv diffuses
over the graph to obtain the action-value graph signal q.
Directional Kernel. The directional kernel is embedded
with the direction information. The (i, j)th element in the
graph convolution operator models the probability of following the edge from i to j ; that is,
Pi,j = Ai,j ·

L
X

(t,θ` )

w` Kd

(θij ) ,

(5)

`=1

where

(t,θ )
Kd `


(θ) =

1 + cos(θ − θ` )
2

t
,

w` is kernel coefficient, θij is the direction of the edge connecting the ith and thejth nodes, which can be computed
(t,θ )
through the node embeddings Xi , Xj ∈ R2 , and Kd ` (θ)
is the directional kernel with order t and reference direction
θ` , reflecting the center of the activation. The hyperparameters include the number of directional kernels L and the order
t, reflecting the directional resolution (a larger t indicates
more focus in one direction); see Figure 7. The kernel coefficient w` and the reference direction θ` are the training
parameters, which is wP in (2).
Spatial Kernel. We next consider both direction and distance. The (i, j)th element in the graph convolution operator
is then,
L
X
Pi,j = Ai,j ·
w` Ks(d` ,t,θ` ) (dij , θij ) ,
(6)
`=1

where Ks(d` ,t,θ` ) (d, θ) = I|d−d` |≤



1 + cos(θ − θ` )
2

and dij is the distance between the ith and the jth nodes,
which can be computed through the node embeddings
(d ,t,θ )
Xi , Xj ∈ R2 , Ks ` ` (d, θ) is the spatial kernel with reference distance d` and reference direction θ` and the indicator
function I|d−d` |≤ = 1 when |d − d` | ≤  and 0, otherwise.
The hyperparameters include the number of directional kernels L, the order t, the reference distance d` and the distance
threshold . The kernel coefficient w` and the reference direction θ` are training parameters (wP in (2)).

t
,

Embedding-based Kernel. In the directional kernel and
spatial kernel, we manually design the kernel and provide
hints for GVIN to learn useful direction-distance patterns.
Now we directly feed the node embeddings and allow GVIN
to automatically learn implicit hidden factors for general planning. The (i, j)th element in the graph convolution operator
is then,
(Ii=j + Ai,j )
·Kemb (Xi , Xj ) ,
P
k (1 + Ak,j )
k (1 + Ai,k )
(7)
where the indicator function Ii=j = 1 when i = j, and
0, otherwise, and the embedding-based kernel function is
Kemb (Xi , Xj ) = mnnet ( [Xi − Xj ]), with mnnet(·) is a
standard multi-layer neural network. The training parameters
wP in (2) are the weights in the multi-layer neural network.
In practice, when the graph is weighted, we may also include
the graph adjacency matrix Ai,j as the input of the multilayer neural network.
Pi,j = pP

Theorem 1. The proposed three kernel functions, the directional kernel, the spatial kernel and the embedding-based
kernel, are shift invariant.
The proof follows from the fact that those kernels use only
the direction, distance and the difference between two node
embeddings, which only depend on the relative position.

Training via Reinforcement Learning
We train GVIN through episodic Q-learning, a modified version of n-step Q-learning. The difference between
episodic Q-learning and the n-step Q-learning is that the nstep Q-learning has a fixed episode duration and updates the
training weights after n steps; while in episodic Q-learning,
each episodic terminates when the agent reaches the goal
or the maximum step threshold is reached, and we update
the trainable weights after the entire episode. During experiments, we found that for both regular and irregular graphs, the
policy planned by the original Q-learning keeps changing and
does not converge due to the frequent updates. Similar to the
Monte Carlo algorithms (Sutton and Barto 1998), episodic
Q-learning first selects actions by using its exploration policy until the goal is reached. Afterwards, we accumulate
the gradients during the entire episode and then update the
trainable weights, allowing the agent to use a stable plan
to complete an entire episode. This simple change greatly
improves the performance (see Section Revisting 2D Mazes).
The pseudocode for the algorithm is presented in Algorithm 1
(Supplementary Episodic Q-learning).

Experimental Results
In this section, we evaluate the proposed method on three
types of graphs: 2D mazes, synthesized irregular graphs and
real road networks. We first validate that the proposed GVIN
is comparable to the original VIN for 2D mazes, which have
regular lattice structure. We next show that the proposed
GVIN automatically learns the concepts of direction and
distance in synthesized irregular graphs through the reinforcement learning setting (without using any ground-truth
labels). Finally, we use the pre-trained GVIN model to plan

paths for the Minnesota road network and Manhattan street
network. Additional experiment parameter settings are listed
in the Supplementary Experiment Settings.

Revisting 2D Mazes
Given a starting point and a goal location, we consider
planning the shortest paths for 2D mazes; see Figure 8(a)
(Supplementary) as an example. We generate 22, 467 2D
mazes (16 × 16) using the same scripts1 that VIN used. We
use the same configuration as VIN (6/7 data for training and
1/7 data for testing). Here we consider four comparisons:
VIN vs. GVIN, action-value based imitating learning vs. statevalue based imitating learning, direction-guided GVIN vs.
unguided GVIN, and reinforcement learning.
Four metrics are used to quantify the planning performance, including prediction accuracy—the probability of
taking the ground-truth action at each state (higher means
better); success rate—the probability of successfully arriving
at the goal from the start state without hitting any obstacles
(higher means better); path difference—the average length
difference between the predicted path and the ground-truth
path (lower means better); and expected reward—the average accumulated reward (higher means better). The overall
testing results are summarized in Table 1.
VIN vs. GVIN. GVIN performs competitively with VIN
(Table 1), especially when GVIN uses direction-aware actionvalue based imitation learning (4th column in Table 1), which
outperforms the others for all four metrics. Figure 8(b) (Supplementary) shows the value map learned from GVIN with
direction-unaware state-value based imitation learning. We
see negative values (in blue) at obstacles and positive values
(in red) around the goal, which is similar to the value map
that VIN reported in (Tamar et al. 2016).
Action-value vs. State-value. VIN with action-value imitation learning slightly outperforms VIN with state-value imitation learning. Similarly, GVIN with action-value based imitation learning slightly outperforms GVIN with state-value
based imitation learning. The results suggest that our action
approximation method (Section Framework) does not impact
the performance while maintaining the ability to be extended
to irregular graphs.
Direction-aware GVIN vs. Unaware GVIN. Directionaware GVIN slightly outperforms direction-unaware GVIN,
which is reasonable because the fixed eight directions are
ground truth for regular 2D mazes. It remains encouraging
that the GVIN is able to find the ground-truth directions
through imitation learning. As shown later, direction-unaware
GVIN outperforms direction-aware GVIN in irregular graphs.
Figures 3(a) and (b) show that the planning performance
improves as the kernel exponential t in (8) increases due to
the resolution in the reference direction being low when t is
small. Figure 7 (in Supplementary) compares the kernel with
the same reference direction, but two different kernel orders.
When t = 5, the kernel activates wide-range directions; when
t = 100, the kernel focuses on a small-range directions and
has a higher resolution.
1

https://github.com/avivt/VIN

VIN
Action-value State-value
Prediction accuracy
Success rate
Path difference
Expected reward

95.00%
99.30%
0.089
0.963

95.00%
99.78%
0.010
0.962

GVIN
Action-value
State-value
dir-aware unaware dir-aware unaware
95.20%
99.91%
0.004
0.965

92.90%
98.60%
0.019
0.939

94.40%
99.57%
0.013
0.958

94.80%
99.68%
0.015
0.960

Table 1: 2D Maze performance comparison for VIN and GVIN. GVIN achieves similar performance with VIN for 2D mazes
(16 × 16); state-value imitation learning achieves similar performance with action-value imitation learning.

(a) Prediction accuracy
in 2D mazes.

(b) Success rate
in 2D mazes.

(c) Prediction accuracy
in irregular graphs

(d) Success rate
in irregular graphs.

Figure 3: Kernel direction order influences the planning performance in both regular and irregular graphs.
based kernel, direction-aware vs. direction-unaware, scale
generalization, and reinforcement learning vs. imitation learning. We use the same performance metrics as the previously
discussed 2D maze experiments.

(a) Expected rewards.

(b) Success rate.

Figure 4: Q- vs. episodic Q-learning on 16 × 16 Maze.
Reinforcement Learning. We also examine the performance of episodic Q-learning (Section Training via Reinforcement Learning) in VIN. Table 4 (Supplementary) shows
that the episodic Q-learning algorithm outperforms the training method used in VIN (TRPO + curriculum learning). For
the results reported in Table 4, we were able to train the VIN
using our algorithm (episodic Q-learning) in just 200 epochs,
while TRPO and curriculum learning took 1000 epochs to
train VIN, as reported in (Tamar et al. 2016) (both algorithms
used the same settings). As shown in Figure 4, the episodic
Q-learning algorithm shows faster convergence and better
overall performance when compared with Q-learning.

Exploring Irregular Graphs
We consider four comparisons in the following experiments: Directional kernel vs. Spatial kernel vs. Embedding-

Directional Kernel vs. Spatial Kernel vs. Embeddingbased Kernel. We first train the GVIN via imitation learning.
Table 2 shows that the embedding-based kernel outperforms
the other kernel methods in terms of both action prediction
and path difference (5th column in Table 2), indicating that
the embedding-based kernel captures the edge weight information (distance) within the neural network weights better than the other methods. The spatial kernel demonstrates
higher accuracy and success rate when compared with the
directional kernel, which suggests the effectiveness of using
bin sampling. The direction-unaware method shows slightly
better results for the spatial kernel, but has a larger success
rate gain for the directional kernel. Figure 8(d) (Supplementary) shows the visualization of the learned value map which
shares similar properties with the regular graph value map.
We also train VIN (1st column) by converting graph to 2D
image. As shown in the Table, VIN fails significantly (See
Supplementary Experiment Settings).
Figures 3(c) and (d) show the planning performance for
the irregular domain as the kernel order t in 8 increases.
The results show that a larger t in the irregular domain has
the opposite effect when compared with the regular domain.
The observation is reasonable: in the irregular domain, the
direction of each neighbor is extremely variable and a larger
kernel order creates a narrower direction range (as seen in

Prediction acc.
Success rate
Path diff.
Expected reward

VIN

MACN
(36 nodes)

26.57%
10.29%
0.992
−0.905

78%
89.4%
-

Directional Kernel
dir-aware unaware

Spatial Kernel
dir-aware unaware

41.50%
34.75%
0.175
0.266

57.45%
96.56%
0.082
0.911

41.51%
65.30%
0.141
0.599

57.90%
97.17%
0.082
0.917

Embedding-based Kernel
train 100 (IL) train 10 (IL) train 10 (RL)
58.90%
97.34%
0.079
0.922

56.14%
6.73%
0.041
−0.03

50.90%
100%
0.148
0.943

Table 2: The performance comparison amongst VIN and three different kernels of GVIN. All experiments except MACN (Khan
et al. 2017) are tested on 100-node irregular graphs. Note the last column is trained using episodic Q-learning. IL and RL stands
for imitate learning and reinforcement learning, respectively. Under similar experimental settings, MACN achieves an 89.4%
success rate for 36-node graphs, while GVIN achieves a 97.34% success rate for 100-node graphs. The details about training
VIN on irregular graphs sees Section Irregular Graphs in the supplementary material.

Prediction Accuracy
Success rate
Path difference
Expected reward

Optimal

Minnesota
|V| = 100

|V| = 10

Optimal

100%
100%
0.0000
0.96043

78.37%
100%
0.1069
0.95063

78.15%
100%
0.1025
0.95069

100%
100%
0.0000
0.97279

New York City
|V| = 100 |V| = 10
78.66%
100%
0.03540
0.97110

79.11%
100%
0.0353
0.97136

Table 3: Performance comparison on Minnesota and New York City street map data using GVIN. |V| = 100 is trained on
100-node graphs and |V| = 10 is trained on 10-node graphs.

(a) Expected rewards

(b) Success rate

Figure 5: Q- vs. Episodic Q-learning on irregular graphs.
Figure7), thus resulting in information loss.
Reinforcement Learning. We then train the GVIN using
episodic Q-learning to compare with imitation learning. As
a baseline, we also train GVIN by using standard deep Qlearning techniques, including using an experience replay
buffer and a target network. Both networks use the same kernel function (embedding-based kernel) and configurations.
Figure 5 shows the comparison of the two algorithms’ success rate and expected rewards during the training. Clearly,
episodic Q-learning converges to both a high success rate and
a high expected rewards, but the standard deep Q-learning
techniques fail to achieve reasonable results.
Scale Generalization. We also examine the scale generalization by training on 10-node graphs and then testing on
100-node graphs using the embedding-based kernel. When
GVIN is trained on 10-node graphs via imitation learning, the
performance is significantly hindered as shown in Table 2 (6th
column). When GVIN is trained using episodic Q-learning,
Table 2 (7th column) shows excellent generalization abilities that outperform all imitation learning based results for
success rate and expected rewards. Compared with imitation

learning, we also observe the performance decreases for path
differences and action prediction.
Graph with Edge Weights. We also test how GVIN handles edge weights. We set the true weighted shortest path to be
Xi − Xj
Wij , where Xi − Xj is the distance between two nodes
and Wij is the edge weight. As shown in Table 5, imitation
learning is trained on 100-node graphs, while reinforcement
learning is trained on 10-node. We also examine the GVIN
by excluding edge weights from the input to see if there are
any effects on performance. Table 5 (Supplementary) shows
that for reinforcement learning, edge weights slightly help
the agent find a more suitable policy; for imitation learning,
input edge weights cause a significant failure.

Validating Real Road Networks
To demonstrate the generalization capabilities of GVIN,
we evaluate two real-world maps: the Minnesota highway
map, which contains 2642 nodes representing intersections
and 6606 edges representing roads, and the New York City
street map, which contains 5069 nodes representing intersections and 13368 edges representing roads. We use the
same models trained on the graphs containing |V| = 100 and
|V| = 10 nodes with the embedding-based kernel and using
episodic Q-learning in Section Exploring Irregular Graphs,
separately. We normalize the data coordinates between 0 and
1, and we set recurrence parameter to K = 200. We randomly pick start points and goal points 1000 different times.
We use the A* algorithm as a baseline. Table 3 shows that
both |V| = 100 and |V| = 10 generalize well on large scale
data. The policy could reach the goal position with 100%
in the experiments. One sample planned path is shown in
Supplementary (Figures 9 and 10).

Conclusions
We have introduced GVIN, a differentiable, novel planning
module capable of both regular and irregular graph navigation and impressive scale generalization. We also introduced
episodic Q-learning that is designed to stabilize the training
process of VIN and GVIN. The proposed graph convolution may be applied to many other graph-based applications,
such as navigation, 3D point cloud processing and molecular
analysis, which is left for future works.

References
Bellman, R. 1957. Dynamic programming. Princeton, USA:
Princeton University Press 1(2):3.
Bertsekas, D. P.; Bertsekas, D. P.; Bertsekas, D. P.; and Bertsekas, D. P. 1995. Dynamic programming and optimal
control, volume 1. Athena Scientific Belmont, MA.
Bojarski, M.; Del Testa, D.; Dworakowski, D.; Firner, B.;
Flepp, B.; Goyal, P.; Jackel, L. D.; Monfort, M.; Muller, U.;
Zhang, J.; et al. 2016. End to end learning for self-driving
cars. arXiv preprint arXiv:1604.07316.
Bresenham, J. 1977. A linear algorithm for incremental
digital display of circular arcs. Communications of the ACM
20(2):100–106.
Bronstein, M. M.; Bruna, J.; LeCun, Y.; Szlam, A.; and Vandergheynst, P. 2016. Geometric deep learning: going beyond
euclidean data. arXiv preprint arXiv:1611.08097.
Bruna, J.; Zaremba, W.; Szlam, A.; and LeCun, Y. 2013.
Spectral networks and locally connected networks on graphs.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1312.6203.
Defferrard, M.; Bresson, X.; and Vandergheynst, P. 2016.
Convolutional neural networks on graphs with fast localized
spectral filtering. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 3837–3845.
Deisenroth, M., and Rasmussen, C. E. 2011. Pilco: A modelbased and data-efficient approach to policy search. In Proceedings of the 28th International Conference on machine
learning (ICML-11), 465–472.
Duvenaud, D. K.; Maclaurin, D.; Iparraguirre, J.; Bombarell,
R.; Hirzel, T.; Aspuru-Guzik, A.; and Adams, R. P. 2015.
Convolutional networks on graphs for learning molecular
fingerprints. In Advances in neural information processing
systems, 2224–2232.
Gilmer, J.; Schoenholz, S. S.; Riley, P. F.; Vinyals, O.; and
Dahl, G. E. 2017. Neural message passing for quantum
chemistry. arXiv preprint arXiv:1704.01212.
Guo, X.; Singh, S.; Lee, H.; Lewis, R. L.; and Wang, X.
2014. Deep learning for real-time atari game play using
offline monte-carlo tree search planning. In Advances in
neural information processing systems, 3338–3346.
Henaff, M.; Bruna, J.; and LeCun, Y. 2015. Deep convolutional networks on graph-structured data. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1506.05163.
Khan, A.; Zhang, C.; Atanasov, N.; Karydis, K.; Kumar, V.;
and Lee, D. D. 2017. Memory augmented control networks.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1709.05706.

Kipf, T. N., and Welling, M. 2016. Semi-supervised classification with graph convolutional networks. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1609.02907.
LeCun, Y.; Bengio, Y.; et al. Convolutional networks for
images, speech, and time series.
Levine, S.; Finn, C.; Darrell, T.; and Abbeel, P. 2015. Endto-end training of deep visuomotor policies. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1504.00702.
Li, Y.; Tarlow, D.; Brockschmidt, M.; and Zemel, R. 2015.
Gated graph sequence neural networks. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1511.05493.
Lillicrap, T. P.; Hunt, J. J.; Pritzel, A.; Heess, N.; Erez, T.;
Tassa, Y.; Silver, D.; and Wierstra, D. 2015. Continuous
control with deep reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1509.02971.
Mnih, V.; Kavukcuoglu, K.; Silver, D.; Graves, A.;
Antonoglou, I.; Wierstra, D.; and Riedmiller, M. 2013. Playing atari with deep reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1312.5602.
Mnih, V.; Badia, A. P.; Mirza, M.; Graves, A.; Lillicrap, T.;
Harley, T.; Silver, D.; and Kavukcuoglu, K. 2016. Asynchronous methods for deep reinforcement learning. In International Conference on Machine Learning, 1928–1937.
Niepert, M.; Ahmed, M.; and Kutzkov, K. 2016. Learning
convolutional neural networks for graphs. In Proceedings of
the 33rd annual international conference on machine learning. ACM.
Schmidhuber, J. 1990. An on-line algorithm for dynamic
reinforcement learning and planning in reactive environments.
In Neural Networks, 1990., 1990 IJCNN International Joint
Conference on, 253–258. IEEE.
Silver, D.; Huang, A.; Maddison, C. J.; Guez, A.; Sifre, L.;
Van Den Driessche, G.; Schrittwieser, J.; Antonoglou, I.;
Panneershelvam, V.; Lanctot, M.; et al. 2016a. Mastering
the game of go with deep neural networks and tree search.
Nature 529(7587):484–489.
Silver, D.; van Hasselt, H.; Hessel, M.; Schaul, T.; Guez, A.;
Harley, T.; Dulac-Arnold, G.; Reichert, D.; Rabinowitz, N.;
Barreto, A.; et al. 2016b. The predictron: End-to-end learning
and planning. arXiv preprint arXiv:1612.08810.
Sutton, R. S., and Barto, A. G. 1998. Reinforcement learning:
An introduction, volume 1. MIT press Cambridge.
Tamar, A.; Levine, S.; Abbeel, P.; WU, Y.; and Thomas, G.
2016. Value iteration networks. In Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems, 2146–2154.
Tieleman, T., and Hinton, G. 2012. Lecture 6.5-rmsprop:
Divide the gradient by a running average of its recent magnitude. COURSERA: Neural networks for machine learning
4(2).

Appendix

is,

Computational Complexity
Let the input graph G have |V| nodes and |E| edges.
In the testing phase, since the input graph are commonly
sparse, the computational complexities of (1), (3) and (4)
are O(|V|), O(|E|) and O(|V|) based on sparse computation,
respectively. Therefore, the total computational complexity is
O(|V| + K(|E| + |V|)), where K is number of iterations. For
a spatial graph, the number of edges is usually proportional
to the number of nodes; thus the computational complexity
is O(K|V|), which is scalable to huge graphs.

Episodic Q-learning
We highlight the differences between episodic Q-learning
and the original n-step Q-learning in blue, including the
initial expected return, the termination condition and the
timing of updating the gradient.
Algorithm 1 Episodic Q-learning
1: input graph G and the goal sg
2: initialize global step counter T = 0
3: initialize GVIN parameters w = [wr , wP(a) ]
4: initialize parameter gradients ∆w
5: repeat (one episode)
6:
clear gradients ∆w ← 0
7:
t=0
8:
randomly pick a start node st
9:
repeat (one action)
take action at according to the -greedy policy
10:
(a)
based on qst
11:
receive reward rt and new state st+1
12:
t←t+1
13:
until terminal st = sg or t > tmax
14:
R=0
15:
for i = t : −1 : 0 do
16:
R ← ri + γR
17:
accumulate gradients wrt w : ∆w ← ∆w +
2
∂(R−q(a)
st )
∂w

18:
end for
19:
w ← w − ∆w
20:
T =T +1
21: until T > Tmax

Graph-based Kernel Functions
Directional Kernel. We first consider direction. When we
face several roads at an intersection, it is straightforward
to pick the one whose direction points to the goal. We aim
to use the directional kernel to capture edge direction and
parameterize the graph convolution operation.
The (i, j)th element in the graph convolution operator
models the probability of following the edge from i to j ; that

Pi,j = Ai,j ·

L
X

(t,θ` )

w` Kd

(θij ) ,

`=1
(t,θ` )

where Kd


(θ) =

1 + cos(θ − θ` )
2

(8)

t
.

where w` is kernel coefficient, θij is the direction of the edge
connecting the ith and thejth nodes, which can be computed
through the node embeddings Xi ∈ R2 and Xj ∈ R2 , and
(t,θ )
Kd ` (θ) is the directional kernel with order t and reference direction θ` , reflecting the center of the activation. The
hyperparameters include the number of directional kernels L
and the order t, reflecting the directional resolution (a larger
t indicates more focus in one direction); see Figure 7. The
kernel coefficient w` and the reference direction θ` are the
training parameters, which is wP in (2). Note that the graph
convolution operator P ∈ RN ×N is a sparse matrix and its
sparsity pattern is the same with the input adjacency matrix,
which ensures that the computation is cheap.

(a) t = 5

(b) t = 100

Figure 6: The directional kernel function activates the areas
around the reference direction θ` in the 2D spatial domain.
The activated area is more concentrated when t increases.
The intuition behind (8) is that each graph convolution
operator represents a unique direction pattern. An edge is
a 2D vector sampled from the 2D spatial plane. When the
direction of the edge connecting i and j matches one or some
of the L reference directions, we have a higher probability to
follow the edge from i to j. In GVIN, we consider several
channels. In each channel, we obtain an action value for
each node, which represents the matching coefficient of a
direction pattern. The max-pooling operation then selects the
most matching direction pattern for each node.
Spatial Kernel. We next consider both direction and distance. When all the roads at the current intersection opposite
to the goal, it is straightforward to try the shortest one first.
We thus include the edge length into the consideration. The
(i, j)th element in the graph convolution operator is then,
Pi,j = Ai,j ·

L
X

w` Ks(d` ,t,θ` ) (dij , θij ) ,

`=1

where

Ks(d` ,t,θ` )


(d, θ) = I|d−d` |≤

1 + cos(θ − θ` )
2

t
,
(9)

where dij is the distance between the ith and the jth nodes,
which can be computed through the node embeddings Xi ∈
(d ,t,θ )
R2 and Xj ∈ R2 , Ks ` ` (d, θ) is the spatial kernel with
reference distance d` and reference direction θ` and the indicator function I|d−d` |≤ = 1 when |d − d` | ≤  and 0,
otherwise. The hyperparameters include the number of directional kernels L, the order t, the reference distance d` and
the distance threshold . The kernel coefficient w` and the
reference direction θ` are training parameters, which is wP
in (2).

(a) t = 5.

(b) t = 100.

Figure 7: The spatial kernel function activates the areas
around the reference direction θ` and reference distance d`
in the 2D spatial domain.
Compared to the directional kernel, the spatial kernel adds
another dimension, distance; in other words, the directional
kernel is a special case of the spatial kernel when we ignore
the distance. Each spatial kernel activates a localized area
in the direction-distance plane. With the spatial kernel, the
graph convolution operator (9) represents a unique directiondistance pattern; that is, if the direction/distance of the edge
connecting i and j matches one or some of the L reference
directions and distances, we have a higher probability to
follow the edge from i to j.
Embedding-based Kernel. In the directional kernel and
spatial kernel, we manually design the kernel and hint GVIN
to learn useful direction-distance patterns. Now we directly
feed the node embeddings and allow GVIN to automatically
learn implicit hidden factors for general planning. The (i, j)th
element in the graph convolution operator is then,
(Ii=j + Ai,j )
·Kemb (Xi , Xj ) ,
P
k (1 + Ak,j )
k (1 + Ai,k )
(10)
where the indicator function Ii=j = 1 when i = j, and
0, otherwise, and the embedding-based kernel function is
Kemb (Xi , Xj ) = mnnet ( [Aij , Xi − Xj ]), with mnnet(·)
is a standard multi-layer neural network. The training parameters wP in (2) are the weights in the multi-layer neural network. Note that the graph convolution operator P ∈ RN ×N
is still a sparse matrix and its sparsity pattern is the same with
the input adjacency matrix plus the identity matrix.
In the directional kernel and spatial kernel, we implicitly
discretize the space based on the reference direction and
distance; that is, for each input pair of given direction and
distance, the kernel function outputs the response based on
its closed reference direction and distance. In the embeddingPi,j = pP

Success rate
No. of Epochs
Path difference
Expected reward

TRPO

EQL2

82.50%
1000
N/A
N/A

98.67%
200
0.1617
0.9451

Table 4: Performance comparison using different training
algorithms on the VIN model. The first column is VIN trained
by TRPO with curriculum learning reported in (Tamar et al.
2016), the second column is VIN trained by episodic Qlearning.
based kernel, we do not set the reference direction and distance to discretize the space; instead, we use the multi-layer
neural network to directly regress from an arbitrary edge
(with edge weight and embedding representation) to a response value. The embedding-based kernel is thus more flexible than the directional kernel and spatial kernel and may
learn hidden factors.

Experiment Settings
Our implementation is based on Tensorflow with GPUenabled platform. All experiments use the standard centered RMSProp algorithm as the optimizer with learning rate
η = 0.001 (Tieleman and Hinton 2012). All reinforcement
learning experiments use a discount of γ = 0.99, RMSProp
decay factor of α = 0.999, and exploration rate  annealed
linearly from 0.2 to 0.001 over the first 200 epochs.
2D Mazes The experiments are set up as follows. We consider the rules as follows: the agent receives a +1 reward
when reaching the goal, receives a −1 reward when hitting
an obstacle, and each movement gets a −0.01 reward. To
preprocess the input data, we use the same two-layer CNN
for both VIN and GVIN, where the first layer involves 150
kernels with size 3 × 3 and the second layer involves a kernel
with size 3 × 3 for output. The transition probability matrix
is parameterized by 10 convolution kernels with size 3 × 3 in
both VIN and GVIN. In GVIN, we use the directional kernel
based method as shown in Equations 8 and 9 and we set
` = 8 to represent the eight reference directions. We consider
two approaches to initialize the directions θ` . In directionaware approach, we fix θ` as [0, π/4, π/2, ..., 7π/4]. In the
direction-unaware approach, we set θ` to be weights and train
them via backpropagation. We set the recurrence K in GVIN
to be 20 for 16 × 16 2D mazes. In the regular domain, we set
the kernel order t = 100 to be the default.
Irregular Graphs We evaluate our proposed methods in
Section Graph Convolution for the irregular domain. Our
experimental domain is a synthetic data which consists of
N = 10000 irregular graphs, in which each graph contains
100 nodes. We follow the standard rules of random geometric graphs to generate our irregular graphs. Specifically, we
generate |V| vertices with random coordinates in the box
[0, 1]2 and connects a pair of two vertices with an edge when
the distance between two vertices is smaller than a certain
threshold. For each node in the graph, we define the coordi-

(a) Input map
(2D mazes).

(b) Value map
(2D mazes).

(c) Input map
(irregular graph).

(d) Value map
(irregular graph).

Figure 8: value map visualization on regular and irregular graph.
Imitation Learning
w edge weight w/o edge weight
Prediction accuracy
Success rate
Path difference
Expected reward

62.24%
3.00%
0.020
−0.612

43.12%
97.60%
0.763
0.771

Reinforcement Learning
w edge weight w/o edge weight
50.38%
100%
0.146
0.943

50.14%
100%
0.151
0.940

Table 5: Performance comparison for testing weighted graphs. Imitation learning is trained on 100-node irregular graphs while
reinforcement learning is trained on 10-node irregular graphs.
nates which represent its spatial position ranged between 0
and 1. The dataset is split into 7672 graphs for training and
1428 graphs for testing. Additionally, to exam whether GVIN
could handle weighted graphs, we also generated a synthetic
dataset consisting of 100 node graphs and partitioned 42857
graphs for training and 7143 graphs for testing.
For the directional kernel and spatial kernel, we set the
number of reference directions to ` = 8 and kernel order t = 20 to be default values for Equations 8 and 9.
We also set θ` to be 0 to 2π with an interval of π/4 for
direction-aware mode and we set θ` to be trainable weights
for direction-unaware mode. For the spatial kernel function,
we set the number of bins d` to be 10 in Equation 9. In the
embedding-based kernel, we use three layers of fully connected neural networks (32-64-1), where each layer uses
ReLU (·) = max(0, ·) as its activation function. The neural
network are initialized with zero-mean and 0.01 derivation.
or all three kernel methods, we set the graph convolution
channel number to be 10 and K = 40 for recurrence.
Training VIN on Irregular Graphs. To show the strong
generalization of GVIN, we evaluate the VIN on irregular
graph by converting graph data format to 2D image. Each
testing set contains reward map and obstacle map that sizes
100 × 100 pixels. We use pre-trained weights from 28 × 28
maze with all parameters tuned to be highest performance.
To make the training and testing consistent, we set the rewards map and obstacle map the same settings as 2D maze:
vertices and edges are marked as free path (value set to be
0), while the other area are marked as obstacles (value set
to be 1). The edge path is generated via Bresenham’s line
algorithm (Bresenham 1977). We set recurrence K to be 200
so that the value iteration could cover the whole map.

(a) Ground-Truth

(b) GVIN prediction

Figure 9: Sample planning trajectories on Minnesota highway map.

(a) Ground-Truth

(b) GVIN prediction

Figure 10: Sample planning trajectories on New York City street map.



Summary:
This research paper covers the following topic: Generalized Value Iteration Networks:
Life Beyond Lattices
Sufeng Niu∗† Siheng Chen∗‡ , Hanyu Guo∗† , Colin Targonski† , Melissa C. Smith† , Jelena Kovačević‡
†

arXiv:1706.02416v2 [cs.LG] 26 Oct 2017

‡

Clemson University, 433 Calhoun Dr., Clemson, SC 29634, USA
Carnegie Mellon University, 5000 Forbes Avenue, Pittsburgh, PA 15213, USA

Abstract
In this paper, we introduce a generalized value iteration network (GVIN), which is an end-to-end neural network planning
module. GVIN emulates the value iteration algorithm by using
a novel graph convolution operator, which enables GVIN to
learn and plan on irregular spatial graphs. We propose three
novel differentiable kernels as graph convolution operators
and show that the embedding-based kernel achieves the best
performance. Furthermore, we present episodic Q-learning,
an improvement upon traditional n-step Q-learning that stabilizes training for VIN and GVIN. Lastly, we evaluate GVIN
on planning problems in 2D mazes, irregular graphs, and realworld street networks, showing that GVIN generalizes well
for both arbitrary graphs and unseen graphs of larger scale
and outperforms a naive generalization of VIN (discretizing a
spatial graph into a 2D image).

Introduction
Reinforcement learning (RL) is a technique that solves
sequential decision making problems that lacks explicit rules
and labels (Sutton and Barto 1998). Recent developments
in Deep Reinforcement Learning(DRL) have lead to enormous progress in autonomous driving (Bojarski et al. 2016),
innovation in robot control (Levine et al. 2015), and humanlevel performance in both Atari games (Mnih et al. 2013;
Guo et al. 2014) and the board game Go (Silver et al. 2016a).
Given a reinforcement learning task, the agent explores the
underlying Markov Decision Process (MDP) (Bellman 1957;
Bertsekas et al. 1995) and attempts to learn a mapping
of high-dimensional state space data to an optimal policy
that maximizes the expected return. Reinforcement learning can be categorized as model-free (Lillicrap et al. 2015;
Mnih et al. 2016; 2013) and model-based approaches (Sutton and Barto 1998; Deisenroth and Rasmussen 2011;
Schmidhuber 1990). Model-free approaches learn the policy
directly by trial-and-error and attempt to avoid bias caused
by a suboptimal environment model (Sutton and Barto 1998);
the majority of recent architectures for DRL follow the
model-free approach (Lillicrap et al. 2015; Mnih et al. 2016;
2013). Model-based approaches, on the other hand, allow
for an agent to explicitly learn the mechanisms of an environment, which can lead to strong generalization abilities. A
∗

Equal contribution.
Copyright c 2018, Association for the Advancement of Artificial
Intelligence (www.aaai.org). All rights reserved.

recent work, the value iteration networks (VIN) (Tamar et al.
2016) combines recurrent convolutional neural networks and
max-pooling to emulate the process of value iteration (Bellman 1957; Bertsekas et al. 1995). As VIN learns an environment, it can plan shortest paths for unseen mazes.
The input data fed into deep learning systems is usually associated with regular structures. For example, speech
signals and natural language have an underlying 1D sequential structure; images have an underlying 2D lattice
structure. To take advantage of this regularly structured
data, deep learning uses a series of basic operations defined for the regular domain, such as convolution and uniform pooling. However, not all data is contained in regular structures. In urban science, traffic information is associated with road networks; in neuroscience, brain activity
is associated with brain connectivity networks; in social
sciences, users’ profile information is associated with social networks. To learn from data with irregular structure,
some recent works have extended the lattice structure to general graphs (Defferrard, Bresson, and Vandergheynst 2016;
Kipf and Welling 2016) and redefined convolution and pooling operations on graphs; however, most works only evaluate
data that has both a fixed and given graph. In addition, most
lack the ability to generalize to new, unseen environments.
In this paper, we aim to enable an agent to self-learn and
plan the optimal path in new, unseen spatial graphs by using model-based DRL and graph-based techniques. This task
is relevant to many real-world applications, such as route
planning of self-driving cars and web crawling/navigation.
The proposed method is more general than classical DRL,
extending for irregular structures. Furthermore, the proposed
method is scalable (computational complexity is proportional
to the number of edges in the testing graph), handles various
edge weight settings and adaptively learns the environment
model. Note that the optimal path can be self-defined, and is
not necessarily the shortest one. Additionally, the proposed
work differs from conventional planning algorithms; for example, Dijkstra’s algorithm requires a known model, while
GVIN aims to learn a general model via trial and error, then
apply said model to new, unseen irregular graphs.
To create GVIN, we generalize VIN in two aspects. First,
to work for irregular graphs, we propose a graph convolution
operator that generalizes the original 2D convolution operator. With the new graph convolution operator, the proposed

network captures the basic concepts in spatial graphs, such
as direction, distance and edge weight. It also is able to transfer knowledge learned from one graph to others. Second, to
improve reinforcement learning on irregular graphs, we propose a reinforcement learning algorithm, episodic Q-learning,
which stabilizes the training for VIN and GVIN. The original VIN is trained through either imitation learning, which
requires a large number of ground-truth labels, or reinforcement learning, whose performance is relatively poor. With
the proposed episodic Q-learning, the new network performs
significantly better than VIN in the reinforcement learning
mode. Since the proposed network generalizes the original
VIN model, we call it the generalized value iteration network
(GVIN).
The main contributions of this paper are:
• The proposed architecture, GVIN, generalizes the VIN
(Tamar et al. 2016) to handle both regular structures and irregular structures. GVIN offers an end-to-end architecture
trained via reinforcement learning (no ground-truth labels);
see Section Framework;
• The proposed graph convolution operator generalizes 2D
convolution learns the concepts of direction and distance,
which enables GVIN to transfer knowledge from one graph
to another; see Section Graph Convolution;
• The proposed reinforcement learning algorithm, episodic
Q-learning, extends the classical n-step Q-learning as Monte
Carlo control and significantly improves the performance of
reinforcement learning for irregular graphs; see Section Training via Reinforcement Learning; and
• Through intensive experiments we demonstrate the generalization ability of GVIN within imitation learning and
episodic Q-learning for various datasets, including synthetic
2D maze data, irregular graphs, and real-world maps (Minnesota highway and New York street maps); we show that
GVIN significantly outperforms VIN with discretization input on irregular structures; See Section Experimental Results.

Background
Markov Decision Process. We consider an environment
defined as an MDP that contains a set of states s ∈ S, a
set of actions a ∈ A, a reward function Rs,a , and a series
of transition probabilities Ps0 ,s,a , the probability of moving
from the current state s to the next state s0 given an action a.
The goal of an MDP is to find a policy that maximizes
the
P∞
expected return (accumulated rewards) Rt = k=0 γ k rt+k ,
where rt+k is the immediate reward at the (t + k)th time
stamp and γ ∈ (0, 1] is the discount rate. A policy πa,s is
the probability of taking action a when in state s. The value
of state s under a policy π, vsπ , is the expected return when
starting in s and following π; that is, vsπ = E[Rt |St = s].
The value of taking action a in state s under a policy π, qπ (a)
s ,
is the expected return when starting in s, taking the action
a and following π; that is, qπ (a)
= E[Rt |St = s, At = a].
s
There is at least one policy that is better than or equal to all
other policies, called an optimal policy π ∗ ; that is, the optimal
policy is π ∗ = arg maxπ vsπ , the optimal state-value function
is vs∗ = maxπ vsπ , and the optimal action-value function
∗
∗
is q∗ (a)
= maxπ qπ (a)
s
s . To obtain π and v , we usually
consider solving the Bellman equation. Value iteration is a

popular algorithm used to solve the Bellman equation in the
discrete
Pstate space; that is, we iteratively compute vs ←
maxa s0 Ps0 ,s,a (Rs,a +γvs0 ) until convergence.
Differentiable planning module. VIN employs an embedded differentiable planning architecture, trained end-toend via imitation learning (Tamar et al. 2016). In VIN, the
Bellman equation is encoded within the convolutional neural networks, and the policy can be obtained through backpropagation. However, VIN is limited to regular lattices; it
requires imitation learning for maximum performance and is
trained separately with a reactive policy. A more recent work
Memory Augmented Control Network (MACN) (Khan et al.
2017) combines the VIN model with a memory augmented
controller, which can then backtrack through the history of
previous trajectories. However, as we shown later in Table 2,
GVIN outperform MACN on both performance and problem scales. A different model-based work, Predictron, uses a
learning and planning model that simulates a Markov reward
process (Silver et al. 2016b). The architecture unrolls the
"imagined" plan via a predictron core. However, Predictron
is limited to the Markov rewards process and is relatively
computationally expensive compared to VIN.
Deep Learning with Graphs. A number of recent works
consider using neural networks to handle signals supported
on graphs (Niepert, Ahmed, and Kutzkov 2016; Duvenaud
et al. 2015; Henaff, Bruna, and LeCun 2015). The principal
idea is to generalize basic operations in the regular domain,
such as filtering and pooling, to the graph domain based
on spectral graph theory. For example, (Bruna et al. 2013;
Henaff, Bruna, and LeCun 2015) introduce hierarchical clustering on graphs and the spectrum of the graph Laplacian to
neural networks; (Defferrard, Bresson, and Vandergheynst
2016) generalizes classical convolutional neural networks by
using graph coarsening and localized convolutional graph
filtering; (Kipf and Welling 2016) considers semi-supervised
learning with graphs by using graph-based convolutional
neural networks; (Li et al. 2015) investigate learning graph
structure through gated recurrent unit; (Gilmer et al. 2017)
considers a message passing framework that unifies previous
work, see some recent overviews in (Bronstein et al. 2016).

Methodology
We propose a new model-based DRL framework, GVIN,
that takes a general graph with a starting node and a goal
node as inputs and outputs the designed plan. The goal of
GVIN is to learn an underlying MDP that summarizes the
optimal planning policy applied for arbitrary graphs, which
requires GVIN to capture general knowledge about planning
that is structure and transition invariant and does not depend
on any specific graph structure. A key component of an MDP
is the transition matrix, which is needed to solve the Bellman
equation. To train a general transition matrix that works for
arbitrary graphs, similar to the VIN, we treat it as a graph
convolution operator and parameterize it by using graphbased kernel functions, each of which represents a unique
action pattern. We train the parameters in GVIN by using
episodic Q-learning, which makes reinforcement learning on
irregular graphs practical.

Figure 1: Architecture of GVIN. The left module emulates value iteration and obtains the state values; the right module is
responsible for selecting an action based on an -greedy policy (for training) or a greed policy (for testing). We emphasize our
contributions, including graph convolution operator and episodic Q-learning, in the blue blocks.

Framework
The input of GVIN is a graph with a starting node and a
goal node. In the training phase, GVIN trains the parameters
by trial-and-error on various graphs; during the testing phase,
GVIN plans the optimal path based on the trained parameters.
The framework includes the planning module (left) and the
action module (right), shown in Figure 1. The planning module emulates value iteration by iteratively operating the graph
convolution and max-pooling. The action module takes the
greedy action according to the value function.
Mathematically, we consider a directed, weighted spatial
graph G = (V, X, E, A), where V = {v1 , ..., vN } is the
node set, X ∈ RN ×2 are the node embeddings with the ith
row Xi ∈ R2 being the embedding of the ith node (here we
consider 2D spatial graphs, but the method is generalizable),
E = {e1 , ..., eM } is the edge set, and A ∈ RN ×N is the
adjacency matrix, with the (i, j)th element Ai,j representing
the edge weight between the ith and jth nodes. We consider
a graph signal as a mapping from the nodes to real values.
We use a graph signal g ∈ {0, 1}N to encode the goal node,
where g is one-sparse and only activates the goal node. Let
r ∈ RN , v ∈ RN , and q ∈ RN be the reward graph signal,
the state-value graph signal, and the action-value graph signal,
respectively. We represent the entire process in a matrixvector form as follows,

P

r

=

fR (g; wr ),

(1)

(a)

=

fP (G; wP(a) ),

(2)

(a)
qn+1

vn+1

(a)

=

P

(r + γvn ) ,

=

(a)
max qn+1 .
a

(3)
(4)

In the feature-extraction step (1), g is encoded to become
the robust reward r via the feature-extract function fR (·),
which is a convolutional neural network in the case of regular graphs, but is the identity function when operating on
irregular graphs; in step (2), where P(a) is the graph convolution operator in the ath channel, a set of graph convolution
operators is trained based on the graph G, which is further
described in Section Graph Convolution; in (3) and (4), value
iteration is emulated by using graph convolution to obtain

the action-value graph signal q(a) in the ath channel and
max-pooling to obtain the state-value graph signal v. wr and
wP(a) are training parameters to parameterize r and P(a) ,
respectively. As shown in Figure 1, we repeat the graph convolution operation (3) and max-pooling (4) for K iterations
b . When G is a 2D
to obtain the final state-value graph signal v
lattice, the planning module of GVIN degenerates to VIN.
In the training phase, we feed the final state-value graph
b to the action module. The original VIN extracts
signal v
the action values from step (3) and trains the final action
probabilities for eight directions; however, this is problematic
for irregular graphs, as the number of actions (neighbors) at
b
each node varies. To solve this, we consider converting v
b ∈ RN , whose sth
to a pseudo action-value graph signal, q
bs = maxs0 ∈Nei(s) v
bs0 , representing the action
element is q
value moving from s to one of its neighbors. The advantages
of this approach come from the following three aspects: (1)
the final state value of each node is obtained by using the
maximum action values across all the channels, which is
robust to small variations; (2) the pseudo action-value graph
signal considers a unique action for each node and does not
depend on the number of actions; that is, at each node, the
agent queries the state values of its neighbors and always
moves to the one with the highest value; and (3) the pseudo
action-value graph signal considers local graph structure,
because the next state is always chosen from one of the
neighbors of the current state.
The pseudo action-value graph signal is used through
episodic Q-learning, which learns from trial-and-error experience and backpropagates to update all of the training parameters. In episodic Q-learning, each episode is obtained as
follows: for each given starting node s0 , the agent will move
sequentially from st to st+1 by the -greedy strategy; that
bs0
is, with probability (1 − ), st+1 = arg maxs0 ∈Nei(st ) v
and with probability , st+1 is randomly selected from
one of the neighbors of st . An episode terminates when
st+1 is the goal state or the maximum step threshold is
reached. For each episode, we consider the loss function
PT
bst )2 , where q
bst is a function of
as, L(w) = t=1 (Rt − q
the training parameters w = [wr , wP(a) ] in GVIN, T is the
episode length and Rt is the expected return at time stamp t,

defined as Rt = (rt+1 + γRt+1 ), where γ is the discount factor, and rt is the immediate return at time stamp t. Additional
details of the algorithm will be discussed in Section Training
via Reinforcement Learning. In the testing phase, we obtain
the action by greedily selecting the maximal state value; that
bs0 .
is, st+1 = arg maxs0 ∈Nei(st ) v

Graph Convolution
The conventional CNN takes an image as input, which is
a 2D lattice graph. Each node is a pixel and has the same
local structure, sitting on a grid and connecting to its eight
neighbors. In this case, the convolution operator is easy to
obtain. In irregular graphs, however, nodes form diverse local
structures, making it challenging to obtain a structured and
translation invariant operator that transfers knowledge from
one graph to another. The fundamental problem here is to
find a convolution operator that works for arbitrary local
structures. We solve this through learning a 2D spatial kernel
function that provides a transition probability distribution in
the 2D space, and according to which we evaluate the weight
of each edge and obtain a graph convolution operator.
The 2D spatial kernel function assigns a value to each
position in the 2D space, which reflects the possibility to
transit to the corresponding position. Mathematically, the
transition probability from a starting position x ∈ R2 to
another position y ∈ R2 is K(x, y), where K(·, ·) is a 2D
spatial kernel function, which will be specified later.
Definition 1. A 2D spatial kernel function K(·, ·) is shift
invariant when it satisfies K(x, y) = K(x + t, y + t), for
all x, y, t ∈ R2 .
The shift invariance requires that the transition probability
depend on the relative position, which is the key for transfer learning; in other words, no matter where the starting
position is, the transition probability distribution is invariant. Based on a shift-invariant 2D spatial kernel function
and the graph adjacency matrix, we obtain the graph convolution operator P = fP (G; wP ) ∈ RN ×N , where each
element Pi,j = Ai,j ·KwP (Xi , Xj ), where the kernel function KwP (·, ·) is parameterized by wP and Xi , Xj ∈ R2 are
the embeddings of the ith and jth node. The graph convolution operator follows from (1) graph connectivity and (2) 2D
spatial kernel function. With the shift-invariant property, the
2D spatial kernel function leads to the same local transition
distribution at each node; the graph adjacency matrix works
as a modulator to select activations in the graph convolution
operator. When there is no edge between i and j, we have
Ai,j = 0 and Pi,j = 0; when there is an edge between i and
j, Pi,j is high when KwP (Xi , Xj ) is high; in other words,
when the transition probability from the ith node to the jth
node is higher, the edge weight Pi,j is high and the influence
from the ith node to the jth node is bigger during the graph
convolution. Note that P is a sparse matrix and its sparsity
pattern is the same with its corresponding adjacency matrix,
which ensures cheap computation.
As shown in (2), the graph convolution is a matrix-vector
multiplication between the graph convolution operator P and
the graph signal r + γvn ; see Figure 2. Note that when we
work with a lattice graph and an appropriate kernel function,

this graph convolution operator P is nothing but a matrix representation of the conventional convolution (LeCun, Bengio,
and others ); in other words, VIN is a special case of GVIN
when the underlying graph is a 2D lattice; see more details in
Supplementary Graph-based Kernel Functions.
We consider three types of shift-invariant 2D spatial kernel
functions: the directional kernel, the spatial kernel, and the
embedding kernel.

Figure 2: Matrix-vector multiplication as graph convolution.
Through a graph convolution operator P, r + γv diffuses
over the graph to obtain the action-value graph signal q.
Directional Kernel. The directional kernel is embedded
with the direction information. The (i, j)th element in the
graph convolution operator models the probability of following the edge from i to j ; that is,
Pi,j = Ai,j ·

L
X

(t,θ` )

w` Kd

(θij ) ,

(5)

`=1

where

(t,θ )
Kd `


(θ) =

1 + cos(θ − θ` )
2

t
,

w` is kernel coefficient, θij is the direction of the edge connecting the ith and thejth nodes, which can be computed
(t,θ )
through the node embeddings Xi , Xj ∈ R2 , and Kd ` (θ)
is the directional kernel with order t and reference direction
θ` , reflecting the center of the activation. The hyperparameters include the number of directional kernels L and the order
t, reflecting the directional resolution (a larger t indicates
more focus in one direction); see Figure 7. The kernel coefficient w` and the reference direction θ` are the training
parameters, which is wP in (2).
Spatial Kernel. We next consider both direction and distance. The (i, j)th element in the graph convolution operator
is then,
L
X
Pi,j = Ai,j ·
w` Ks(d` ,t,θ` ) (dij , θij ) ,
(6)
`=1

where Ks(d` ,t,θ` ) (d, θ) = I|d−d` |≤



1 + cos(θ − θ` )
2

and dij is the distance between the ith and the jth nodes,
which can be computed through the node embeddings
(d ,t,θ )
Xi , Xj ∈ R2 , Ks ` ` (d, θ) is the spatial kernel with reference distance d` and reference direction θ` and the indicator
function I|d−d` |≤ = 1 when |d − d` | ≤  and 0, otherwise.
The hyperparameters include the number of directional kernels L, the order t, the reference distance d` and the distance
threshold . The kernel coefficient w` and the reference direction θ` are training parameters (wP in (2)).

t
,

Embedding-based Kernel. In the directional kernel and
spatial kernel, we manually design the kernel and provide
hints for GVIN to learn useful direction-distance patterns.
Now we directly feed the node embeddings and allow GVIN
to automatically learn implicit hidden factors for general planning. The (i, j)th element in the graph convolution operator
is then,
(Ii=j + Ai,j )
·Kemb (Xi , Xj ) ,
P
k (1 + Ak,j )
k (1 + Ai,k )
(7)
where the indicator function Ii=j = 1 when i = j, and
0, otherwise, and the embedding-based kernel function is
Kemb (Xi , Xj ) = mnnet ( [Xi − Xj ]), with mnnet(·) is a
standard multi-layer neural network. The training parameters
wP in (2) are the weights in the multi-layer neural network.
In practice, when the graph is weighted, we may also include
the graph adjacency matrix Ai,j as the input of the multilayer neural network.
Pi,j = pP

Theorem 1. The proposed three kernel functions, the directional kernel, the spatial kernel and the embedding-based
kernel, are shift invariant.
The proof follows from the fact that those kernels use only
the direction, distance and the difference between two node
embeddings, which only depend on the relative position.

Training via Reinforcement Learning
We train GVIN through episodic Q-learning, a modified version of n-step Q-learning. The difference between
episodic Q-learning and the n-step Q-learning is that the nstep Q-learning has a fixed episode duration and updates the
training weights after n steps; while in episodic Q-learning,
each episodic terminates when the agent reaches the goal
or the maximum step threshold is reached, and we update
the trainable weights after the entire episode. During experiments, we found that for both regular and irregular graphs, the
policy planned by the original Q-learning keeps changing and
does not converge due to the frequent updates. Similar to the
Monte Carlo algorithms (Sutton and Barto 1998), episodic
Q-learning first selects actions by using its exploration policy until the goal is reached. Afterwards, we accumulate
the gradients during the entire episode and then update the
trainable weights, allowing the agent to use a stable plan
to complete an entire episode. This simple change greatly
improves the performance (see Section Revisting 2D Mazes).
The pseudocode for the algorithm is presented in Algorithm 1
(Supplementary Episodic Q-learning).

Experimental Results
In this section, we evaluate the proposed method on three
types of graphs: 2D mazes, synthesized irregular graphs and
real road networks. We first validate that the proposed GVIN
is comparable to the original VIN for 2D mazes, which have
regular lattice structure. We next show that the proposed
GVIN automatically learns the concepts of direction and
distance in synthesized irregular graphs through the reinforcement learning setting (without using any ground-truth
labels). Finally, we use the pre-trained GVIN model to plan

paths for the Minnesota road network and Manhattan street
network. Additional experiment parameter settings are listed
in the Supplementary Experiment Settings.

Revisting 2D Mazes
Given a starting point and a goal location, we consider
planning the shortest paths for 2D mazes; see Figure 8(a)
(Supplementary) as an example. We generate 22, 467 2D
mazes (16 × 16) using the same scripts1 that VIN used. We
use the same configuration as VIN (6/7 data for training and
1/7 data for testing). Here we consider four comparisons:
VIN vs. GVIN, action-value based imitating learning vs. statevalue based imitating learning, direction-guided GVIN vs.
unguided GVIN, and reinforcement learning.
Four metrics are used to quantify the planning performance, including prediction accuracy—the probability of
taking the ground-truth action at each state (higher means
better); success rate—the probability of successfully arriving
at the goal from the start state without hitting any obstacles
(higher means better); path difference—the average length
difference between the predicted path and the ground-truth
path (lower means better); and expected reward—the average accumulated reward (higher means better). The overall
testing results are summarized in Table 1.
VIN vs. GVIN. GVIN performs competitively with VIN
(Table 1), especially when GVIN uses direction-aware actionvalue based imitation learning (4th column in Table 1), which
outperforms the others for all four metrics. Figure 8(b) (Supplementary) shows the value map learned from GVIN with
direction-unaware state-value based imitation learning. We
see negative values (in blue) at obstacles and positive values
(in red) around the goal, which is similar to the value map
that VIN reported in (Tamar et al. 2016).
Action-value vs. State-value. VIN with action-value imitation learning slightly outperforms VIN with state-value imitation learning. Similarly, GVIN with action-value based imitation learning slightly outperforms GVIN with state-value
based imitation learning. The results suggest that our action
approximation method (Section Framework) does not impact
the performance while maintaining the ability to be extended
to irregular graphs.
Direction-aware GVIN vs. Unaware GVIN. Directionaware GVIN slightly outperforms direction-unaware GVIN,
which is reasonable because the fixed eight directions are
ground truth for regular 2D mazes. It remains encouraging
that the GVIN is able to find the ground-truth directions
through imitation learning. As shown later, direction-unaware
GVIN outperforms direction-aware GVIN in irregular graphs.
Figures 3(a) and (b) show that the planning performance
improves as the kernel exponential t in (8) increases due to
the resolution in the reference direction being low when t is
small. Figure 7 (in Supplementary) compares the kernel with
the same reference direction, but two different kernel orders.
When t = 5, the kernel activates wide-range directions; when
t = 100, the kernel focuses on a small-range directions and
has a higher resolution.
1

https://github.com/avivt/VIN

VIN
Action-value State-value
Prediction accuracy
Success rate
Path difference
Expected reward

95.00%
99.30%
0.089
0.963

95.00%
99.78%
0.010
0.962

GVIN
Action-value
State-value
dir-aware unaware dir-aware unaware
95.20%
99.91%
0.004
0.965

92.90%
98.60%
0.019
0.939

94.40%
99.57%
0.013
0.958

94.80%
99.68%
0.015
0.960

Table 1: 2D Maze performance comparison for VIN and GVIN. GVIN achieves similar performance with VIN for 2D mazes
(16 × 16); state-value imitation learning achieves similar performance with action-value imitation learning.

(a) Prediction accuracy
in 2D mazes.

(b) Success rate
in 2D mazes.

(c) Prediction accuracy
in irregular graphs

(d) Success rate
in irregular graphs.

Figure 3: Kernel direction order influences the planning performance in both regular and irregular graphs.
based kernel, direction-aware vs. direction-unaware, scale
generalization, and reinforcement learning vs. imitation learning. We use the same performance metrics as the previously
discussed 2D maze experiments.

(a) Expected rewards.

(b) Success rate.

Figure 4: Q- vs. episodic Q-learning on 16 × 16 Maze.
Reinforcement Learning. We also examine the performance of episodic Q-learning (Section Training via Reinforcement Learning) in VIN. Table 4 (Supplementary) shows
that the episodic Q-learning algorithm outperforms the training method used in VIN (TRPO + curriculum learning). For
the results reported in Table 4, we were able to train the VIN
using our algorithm (episodic Q-learning) in just 200 epochs,
while TRPO and curriculum learning took 1000 epochs to
train VIN, as reported in (Tamar et al. 2016) (both algorithms
used the same settings). As shown in Figure 4, the episodic
Q-learning algorithm shows faster convergence and better
overall performance when compared with Q-learning.

Exploring Irregular Graphs
We consider four comparisons in the following experiments: Directional kernel vs. Spatial kernel vs. Embedding-

Directional Kernel vs. Spatial Kernel vs. Embeddingbased Kernel. We first train the GVIN via imitation learning.
Table 2 shows that the embedding-based kernel outperforms
the other kernel methods in terms of both action prediction
and path difference (5th column in Table 2), indicating that
the embedding-based kernel captures the edge weight information (distance) within the neural network weights better than the other methods. The spatial kernel demonstrates
higher accuracy and success rate when compared with the
directional kernel, which suggests the effectiveness of using
bin sampling. The direction-unaware method shows slightly
better results for the spatial kernel, but has a larger success
rate gain for the directional kernel. Figure 8(d) (Supplementary) shows the visualization of the learned value map which
shares similar properties with the regular graph value map.
We also train VIN (1st column) by converting graph to 2D
image. As shown in the Table, VIN fails significantly (See
Supplementary Experiment Settings).
Figures 3(c) and (d) show the planning performance for
the irregular domain as the kernel order t in 8 increases.
The results show that a larger t in the irregular domain has
the opposite effect when compared with the regular domain.
The observation is reasonable: in the irregular domain, the
direction of each neighbor is extremely variable and a larger
kernel order creates a narrower direction range (as seen in

Prediction acc.
Success rate
Path diff.
Expected reward

VIN

MACN
(36 nodes)

26.57%
10.29%
0.992
−0.905

78%
89.4%
-

Directional Kernel
dir-aware unaware

Spatial Kernel
dir-aware unaware

41.50%
34.75%
0.175
0.266

57.45%
96.56%
0.082
0.911

41.51%
65.30%
0.141
0.599

57.90%
97.17%
0.082
0.917

Embedding-based Kernel
train 100 (IL) train 10 (IL) train 10 (RL)
58.90%
97.34%
0.079
0.922

56.14%
6.73%
0.041
−0.03

50.90%
100%
0.148
0.943

Table 2: The performance comparison amongst VIN and three different kernels of GVIN. All experiments except MACN (Khan
et al. 2017) are tested on 100-node irregular graphs. Note the last column is trained using episodic Q-learning. IL and RL stands
for imitate learning and reinforcement learning, respectively. Under similar experimental settings, MACN achieves an 89.4%
success rate for 36-node graphs, while GVIN achieves a 97.34% success rate for 100-node graphs. The details about training
VIN on irregular graphs sees Section Irregular Graphs in the supplementary material.

Prediction Accuracy
Success rate
Path difference
Expected reward

Optimal

Minnesota
|V| = 100

|V| = 10

Optimal

100%
100%
0.0000
0.96043

78.37%
100%
0.1069
0.95063

78.15%
100%
0.1025
0.95069

100%
100%
0.0000
0.97279

New York City
|V| = 100 |V| = 10
78.66%
100%
0.03540
0.97110

79.11%
100%
0.0353
0.97136

Table 3: Performance comparison on Minnesota and New York City street map data using GVIN. |V| = 100 is trained on
100-node graphs and |V| = 10 is trained on 10-node graphs.

(a) Expected rewards

(b) Success rate

Figure 5: Q- vs. Episodic Q-learning on irregular graphs.
Figure7), thus resulting in information loss.
Reinforcement Learning. We then train the GVIN using
episodic Q-learning to compare with imitation learning. As
a baseline, we also train GVIN by using standard deep Qlearning techniques, including using an experience replay
buffer and a target network. Both networks use the same kernel function (embedding-based kernel) and configurations.
Figure 5 shows the comparison of the two algorithms’ success rate and expected rewards during the training. Clearly,
episodic Q-learning converges to both a high success rate and
a high expected rewards, but the standard deep Q-learning
techniques fail to achieve reasonable results.
Scale Generalization. We also examine the scale generalization by training on 10-node graphs and then testing on
100-node graphs using the embedding-based kernel. When
GVIN is trained on 10-node graphs via imitation learning, the
performance is significantly hindered as shown in Table 2 (6th
column). When GVIN is trained using episodic Q-learning,
Table 2 (7th column) shows excellent generalization abilities that outperform all imitation learning based results for
success rate and expected rewards. Compared with imitation

learning, we also observe the performance decreases for path
differences and action prediction.
Graph with Edge Weights. We also test how GVIN handles edge weights. We set the true weighted shortest path to be
Xi − Xj
Wij , where Xi − Xj is the distance between two nodes
and Wij is the edge weight. As shown in Table 5, imitation
learning is trained on 100-node graphs, while reinforcement
learning is trained on 10-node. We also examine the GVIN
by excluding edge weights from the input to see if there are
any effects on performance. Table 5 (Supplementary) shows
that for reinforcement learning, edge weights slightly help
the agent find a more suitable policy; for imitation learning,
input edge weights cause a significant failure.

Validating Real Road Networks
To demonstrate the generalization capabilities of GVIN,
we evaluate two real-world maps: the Minnesota highway
map, which contains 2642 nodes representing intersections
and 6606 edges representing roads, and the New York City
street map, which contains 5069 nodes representing intersections and 13368 edges representing roads. We use the
same models trained on the graphs containing |V| = 100 and
|V| = 10 nodes with the embedding-based kernel and using
episodic Q-learning in Section Exploring Irregular Graphs,
separately. We normalize the data coordinates between 0 and
1, and we set recurrence parameter to K = 200. We randomly pick start points and goal points 1000 different times.
We use the A* algorithm as a baseline. Table 3 shows that
both |V| = 100 and |V| = 10 generalize well on large scale
data. The policy could reach the goal position with 100%
in the experiments. One sample planned path is shown in
Supplementary (Figures 9 and 10).

Conclusions
We have introduced GVIN, a differentiable, novel planning
module capable of both regular and irregular graph navigation and impressive scale generalization. We also introduced
episodic Q-learning that is designed to stabilize the training
process of VIN and GVIN. The proposed graph convolution may be applied to many other graph-based applications,
such as navigation, 3D point cloud processing and molecular
analysis, which is left for future works.

References
Bellman, R. 1957. Dynamic programming. Princeton, USA:
Princeton University Press 1(2):3.
Bertsekas, D. P.; Bertsekas, D. P.; Bertsekas, D. P.; and Bertsekas, D. P. 1995. Dynamic programming and optimal
control, volume 1. Athena Scientific Belmont, MA.
Bojarski, M.; Del Testa, D.; Dworakowski, D.; Firner, B.;
Flepp, B.; Goyal, P.; Jackel, L. D.; Monfort, M.; Muller, U.;
Zhang, J.; et al. 2016. End to end learning for self-driving
cars. arXiv preprint arXiv:1604.07316.
Bresenham, J. 1977. A linear algorithm for incremental
digital display of circular arcs. Communications of the ACM
20(2):100–106.
Bronstein, M. M.; Bruna, J.; LeCun, Y.; Szlam, A.; and Vandergheynst, P. 2016. Geometric deep learning: going beyond
euclidean data. arXiv preprint arXiv:1611.08097.
Bruna, J.; Zaremba, W.; Szlam, A.; and LeCun, Y. 2013.
Spectral networks and locally connected networks on graphs.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1312.6203.
Defferrard, M.; Bresson, X.; and Vandergheynst, P. 2016.
Convolutional neural networks on graphs with fast localized
spectral filtering. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems, 3837–3845.
Deisenroth, M., and Rasmussen, C. E. 2011. Pilco: A modelbased and data-efficient approach to policy search. In Proceedings of the 28th International Conference on machine
learning (ICML-11), 465–472.
Duvenaud, D. K.; Maclaurin, D.; Iparraguirre, J.; Bombarell,
R.; Hirzel, T.; Aspuru-Guzik, A.; and Adams, R. P. 2015.
Convolutional networks on graphs for learning molecular
fingerprints. In Advances in neural information processing
systems, 2224–2232.
Gilmer, J.; Schoenholz, S. S.; Riley, P. F.; Vinyals, O.; and
Dahl, G. E. 2017. Neural message passing for quantum
chemistry. arXiv preprint arXiv:1704.01212.
Guo, X.; Singh, S.; Lee, H.; Lewis, R. L.; and Wang, X.
2014. Deep learning for real-time atari game play using
offline monte-carlo tree search planning. In Advances in
neural information processing systems, 3338–3346.
Henaff, M.; Bruna, J.; and LeCun, Y. 2015. Deep convolutional networks on graph-structured data. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1506.05163.
Khan, A.; Zhang, C.; Atanasov, N.; Karydis, K.; Kumar, V.;
and Lee, D. D. 2017. Memory augmented control networks.
arXiv preprint arXiv:1709.05706.

Kipf, T. N., and Welling, M. 2016. Semi-supervised classification with graph convolutional networks. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1609.02907.
LeCun, Y.; Bengio, Y.; et al. Convolutional networks for
images, speech, and time series.
Levine, S.; Finn, C.; Darrell, T.; and Abbeel, P. 2015. Endto-end training of deep visuomotor policies. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1504.00702.
Li, Y.; Tarlow, D.; Brockschmidt, M.; and Zemel, R. 2015.
Gated graph sequence neural networks. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1511.05493.
Lillicrap, T. P.; Hunt, J. J.; Pritzel, A.; Heess, N.; Erez, T.;
Tassa, Y.; Silver, D.; and Wierstra, D. 2015. Continuous
control with deep reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1509.02971.
Mnih, V.; Kavukcuoglu, K.; Silver, D.; Graves, A.;
Antonoglou, I.; Wierstra, D.; and Riedmiller, M. 2013. Playing atari with deep reinforcement learning. arXiv preprint
arXiv:1312.5602.
Mnih, V.; Badia, A. P.; Mirza, M.; Graves, A.; Lillicrap, T.;
Harley, T.; Silver, D.; and Kavukcuoglu, K. 2016. Asynchronous methods for deep reinforcement learning. In International Conference on Machine Learning, 1928–1937.
Niepert, M.; Ahmed, M.; and Kutzkov, K. 2016. Learning
convolutional neural networks for graphs. In Proceedings of
the 33rd annual international conference on machine learning. ACM.
Schmidhuber, J. 1990. An on-line algorithm for dynamic
reinforcement learning and planning in reactive environments.
In Neural Networks, 1990., 1990 IJCNN International Joint
Conference on, 253–258. IEEE.
Silver, D.; Huang, A.; Maddison, C. J.; Guez, A.; Sifre, L.;
Van Den Driessche, G.; Schrittwieser, J.; Antonoglou, I.;
Panneershelvam, V.; Lanctot, M.; et al. 2016a. Mastering
the game of go with deep neural networks and tree search.
Nature 529(7587):484–489.
Silver, D.; van Hasselt, H.; Hessel, M.; Schaul, T.; Guez, A.;
Harley, T.; Dulac-Arnold, G.; Reichert, D.; Rabinowitz, N.;
Barreto, A.; et al. 2016b. The predictron: End-to-end learning
and planning. arXiv preprint arXiv:1612.08810.
Sutton, R. S., and Barto, A. G. 1998. Reinforcement learning:
An introduction, volume 1. MIT press Cambridge.
Tamar, A.; Levine, S.; Abbeel, P.; WU, Y.; and Thomas, G.
2016. Value iteration networks. In Advances in Neural
Information Processing Systems, 2146–2154.
Tieleman, T., and Hinton, G. 2012. Lecture 6.5-rmsprop:
Divide the gradient by a running average of its recent magnitude. COURSERA: Neural networks for machine learning
4(2).

Appendix

is,

Computational Complexity
Let the input graph G have |V| nodes and |E| edges.
In the testing phase, since the input graph are commonly
sparse, the computational complexities of (1), (3) and (4)
are O(|V|), O(|E|) and O(|V|) based on sparse computation,
respectively. Therefore, the total computational complexity is
O(|V| + K(|E| + |V|)), where K is number of iterations. For
a spatial graph, the number of edges is usually proportional
to the number of nodes; thus the computational complexity
is O(K|V|), which is scalable to huge graphs.

Episodic Q-learning
We highlight the differences between episodic Q-learning
and the original n-step Q-learning in blue, including the
initial expected return, the termination condition and the
timing of updating the gradient.
Algorithm 1 Episodic Q-learning
1: input graph G and the goal sg
2: initialize global step counter T = 0
3: initialize GVIN parameters w = [wr , wP(a) ]
4: initialize parameter gradients ∆w
5: repeat (one episode)
6:
clear gradients ∆w ← 0
7:
t=0
8:
randomly pick a start node st
9:
repeat (one action)
take action at according to the -greedy policy
10:
(a)
based on qst
11:
receive reward rt and new state st+1
12:
t←t+1
13:
until terminal st = sg or t > tmax
14:
R=0
15:
for i = t : −1 : 0 do
16:
R ← ri + γR
17:
accumulate gradients wrt w : ∆w ← ∆w +
2
∂(R−q(a)
st )
∂w

18:
end for
19:
w ← w − ∆w
20:
T =T +1
21: until T > Tmax

Graph-based Kernel Functions
Directional Kernel. We first consider direction. When we
face several roads at an intersection, it is straightforward
to pick the one whose direction points to the goal. We aim
to use the directional kernel to capture edge direction and
parameterize the graph convolution operation.
The (i, j)th element in the graph convolution operator
models the probability of following the edge from i to j ; that

Pi,j = Ai,j ·

L
X

(t,θ` )

w` Kd

(θij ) ,

`=1
(t,θ` )

where Kd


(θ) =

1 + cos(θ − θ` )
2

(8)

t
.

where w` is kernel coefficient, θij is the direction of the edge
connecting the ith and thejth nodes, which can be computed
through the node embeddings Xi ∈ R2 and Xj ∈ R2 , and
(t,θ )
Kd ` (θ) is the directional kernel with order t and reference direction θ` , reflecting the center of the activation. The
hyperparameters include the number of directional kernels L
and the order t, reflecting the directional resolution (a larger
t indicates more focus in one direction); see Figure 7. The
kernel coefficient w` and the reference direction θ` are the
training parameters, which is wP in (2). Note that the graph
convolution operator P ∈ RN ×N is a sparse matrix and its
sparsity pattern is the same with the input adjacency matrix,
which ensures that the computation is cheap.

(a) t = 5

(b) t = 100

Figure 6: The directional kernel function activates the areas
around the reference direction θ` in the 2D spatial domain.
The activated area is more concentrated when t increases.
The intuition behind (8) is that each graph convolution
operator represents a unique direction pattern. An edge is
a 2D vector sampled from the 2D spatial plane. When the
direction of the edge connecting i and j matches one or some
of the L reference directions, we have a higher probability to
follow the edge from i to j. In GVIN, we consider several
channels. In each channel, we obtain an action value for
each node, which represents the matching coefficient of a
direction pattern. The max-pooling operation then selects the
most matching direction pattern for each node.
Spatial Kernel. We next consider both direction and distance. When all the roads at the current intersection opposite
to the goal, it is straightforward to try the shortest one first.
We thus include the edge length into the consideration. The
(i, j)th element in the graph convolution operator is then,
Pi,j = Ai,j ·

L
X

w` Ks(d` ,t,θ` ) (dij , θij ) ,

`=1

where

Ks(d` ,t,θ` )


(d, θ) = I|d−d` |≤

1 + cos(θ − θ` )
2

t
,
(9)

where dij is the distance between the ith and the jth nodes,
which can be computed through the node embeddings Xi ∈
(d ,t,θ )
R2 and Xj ∈ R2 , Ks ` ` (d, θ) is the spatial kernel with
reference distance d` and reference direction θ` and the indicator function I|d−d` |≤ = 1 when |d − d` | ≤  and 0,
otherwise. The hyperparameters include the number of directional kernels L, the order t, the reference distance d` and
the distance threshold . The kernel coefficient w` and the
reference direction θ` are training parameters, which is wP
in (2).

(a) t = 5.

(b) t = 100.

Figure 7: The spatial kernel function activates the areas
around the reference direction θ` and reference distance d`
in the 2D spatial domain.
Compared to the directional kernel, the spatial kernel adds
another dimension, distance; in other words, the directional
kernel is a special case of the spatial kernel when we ignore
the distance. Each spatial kernel activates a localized area
in the direction-distance plane. With the spatial kernel, the
graph convolution operator (9) represents a unique directiondistance pattern; that is, if the direction/distance of the edge
connecting i and j matches one or some of the L reference
directions and distances, we have a higher probability to
follow the edge from i to j.
Embedding-based Kernel. In the directional kernel and
spatial kernel, we manually design the kernel and hint GVIN
to learn useful direction-distance patterns. Now we directly
feed the node embeddings and allow GVIN to automatically
learn implicit hidden factors for general planning. The (i, j)th
element in the graph convolution operator is then,
(Ii=j + Ai,j )
·Kemb (Xi , Xj ) ,
P
k (1 + Ak,j )
k (1 + Ai,k )
(10)
where the indicator function Ii=j = 1 when i = j, and
0, otherwise, and the embedding-based kernel function is
Kemb (Xi , Xj ) = mnnet ( [Aij , Xi − Xj ]), with mnnet(·)
is a standard multi-layer neural network. The training parameters wP in (2) are the weights in the multi-layer neural network. Note that the graph convolution operator P ∈ RN ×N
is still a sparse matrix and its sparsity pattern is the same with
the input adjacency matrix plus the identity matrix.
In the directional kernel and spatial kernel, we implicitly
discretize the space based on the reference direction and
distance; that is, for each input pair of given direction and
distance, the kernel function outputs the response based on
its closed reference direction and distance. In the embeddingPi,j = pP

Success rate
No. of Epochs
Path difference
Expected reward

TRPO

EQL2

82.50%
1000
N/A
N/A

98.67%
200
0.1617
0.9451

Table 4: Performance comparison using different training
algorithms on the VIN model. The first column is VIN trained
by TRPO with curriculum learning reported in (Tamar et al.
2016), the second column is VIN trained by episodic Qlearning.
based kernel, we do not set the reference direction and distance to discretize the space; instead, we use the multi-layer
neural network to directly regress from an arbitrary edge
(with edge weight and embedding representation) to a response value. The embedding-based kernel is thus more flexible than the directional kernel and spatial kernel and may
learn hidden factors.

Experiment Settings
Our implementation is based on Tensorflow with GPUenabled platform. All experiments use the standard centered RMSProp algorithm as the optimizer with learning rate
η = 0.001 (Tieleman and Hinton 2012). All reinforcement
learning experiments use a discount of γ = 0.99, RMSProp
decay factor of α = 0.999, and exploration rate  annealed
linearly from 0.2 to 0.001 over the first 200 epochs.
2D Mazes The experiments are set up as follows. We consider the rules as follows: the agent receives a +1 reward
when reaching the goal, receives a −1 reward when hitting
an obstacle, and each movement gets a −0.01 reward. To
preprocess the input data, we use the same two-layer CNN
for both VIN and GVIN, where the first layer involves 150
kernels with size 3 × 3 and the second layer involves a kernel
with size 3 × 3 for output. The transition probability matrix
is parameterized by 10 convolution kernels with size 3 × 3 in
both VIN and GVIN. In GVIN, we use the directional kernel
based method as shown in Equations 8 and 9 and we set
` = 8 to represent the eight reference directions. We consider
two approaches to initialize the directions θ` . In directionaware approach, we fix θ` as [0, π/4, π/2, ..., 7π/4]. In the
direction-unaware approach, we set θ` to be weights and train
them via backpropagation. We set the recurrence K in GVIN
to be 20 for 16 × 16 2D mazes. In the regular domain, we set
the kernel order t = 100 to be the default.
Irregular Graphs We evaluate our proposed methods in
Section Graph Convolution for the irregular domain. Our
experimental domain is a synthetic data which consists of
N = 10000 irregular graphs, in which each graph contains
100 nodes. We follow the standard rules of random geometric graphs to generate our irregular graphs. Specifically, we
generate |V| vertices with random coordinates in the box
[0, 1]2 and connects a pair of two vertices with an edge when
the distance between two vertices is smaller than a certain
threshold. For each node in the graph, we define the coordi-

(a) Input map
(2D mazes).

(b) Value map
(2D mazes).

(c) Input map
(irregular graph).

(d) Value map
(irregular graph).

Figure 8: value map visualization on regular and irregular graph.
Imitation Learning
w edge weight w/o edge weight
Prediction accuracy
Success rate
Path difference
Expected reward

62.24%
3.00%
0.020
−0.612

43.12%
97.60%
0.763
0.771

Reinforcement Learning
w edge weight w/o edge weight
50.38%
100%
0.146
0.943

50.14%
100%
0.151
0.940

Table 5: Performance comparison for testing weighted graphs. Imitation learning is trained on 100-node irregular graphs while
reinforcement learning is trained on 10-node irregular graphs.
nates which represent its spatial position ranged between 0
and 1. The dataset is split into 7672 graphs for training and
1428 graphs for testing. Additionally, to exam whether GVIN
could handle weighted graphs, we also generated a synthetic
dataset consisting of 100 node graphs and partitioned 42857
graphs for training and 7143 graphs for testing.
For the directional kernel and spatial kernel, we set the
number of reference directions to ` = 8 and kernel order t = 20 to be default values for Equations 8 and 9.
We also set θ` to be 0 to 2π with an interval of π/4 for
direction-aware mode and we set θ` to be trainable weights
for direction-unaware mode. For the spatial kernel function,
we set the number of bins d` to be 10 in Equation 9. In the
embedding-based kernel, we use three layers of fully connected neural networks (32-64-1), where each layer uses
ReLU (·) = max(0, ·) as its activation function. The neural
network are initialized with zero-mean and 0.01 derivation.
or all three kernel methods, we set the graph convolution
channel number to be 10 and K = 40 for recurrence.
Training VIN on Irregular Graphs. To show the strong
generalization of GVIN, we evaluate the VIN on irregular
graph by converting graph data format to 2D image. Each
testing set contains reward map and obstacle map that sizes
100 × 100 pixels. We use pre-trained weights from 28 × 28
maze with all parameters tuned to be highest performance.
To make the training and testing consistent, we set the rewards map and obstacle map the same settings as 2D maze:
vertices and edges are marked as free path (value set to be
0), while the other area are marked as obstacles (value set
to be 1). The edge path is generated via Bresenham’s line
algorithm (Bresenham 1977). We set recurrence K to be 200
so that the value iteration could cover the whole map.

(a) Ground-Truth

(b) GVIN prediction

Figure 9: Sample planning trajectories on Minnesota highway map.

(a) Ground-Truth

(b) GVIN prediction

Figure 10: Sample planning trajectories on New York City street map.


