Title: arXiv paper 1008

Categories: 2

Abstract:
arXiv:1707.01415v1 [cs.AI] 5 Jul 2017

Machine Learning, Deepest Learning:
Statistical Data Assimilation Problems
Henry Abarbanel,
Department of Physics
and
Marine Physical Laboratory (Scripps Institution of Oceanography)
Center for Engineered Natural Intelligence
habarbanel@ucsd.edu
Paul Rozdeba
and
Sasha Shirman

Department of Physics
University of California, San Diego
9500 Gilman Drive, Mail Code 0374
La Jolla, CA 92093-0374, USA
Draft of July 6, 2017

1

1

Abstract

We formulate a strong equivalence between machine learning, artificial intelligence methods and the formulation of statistical data assimilation as
used widely in physical and biological sciences. The correspondence is that
layer number in the artificial network setting is the analog of time in the
data assimilation setting. Within the discussion of this equivalence we show
that adding more layers (making the network deeper) is analogous to adding
temporal resolution in a data assimilation framework.
How one can find a candidate for the global minimum of the cost functions
in the machine learning context using a method from data assimilation is
discussed. Calculations on simple models from each side of the equivalence
are reported.
Also discussed is a framework in which the time or layer label is taken
to be continuous, providing a differential equation, the Euler-Lagrange equation, which shows that the problem being solved is a two point boundary
value problem familiar in the discussion of variational methods. The use of
continuous layers is denoted “deepest learning”. These problems respect a
symplectic symmetry in continuous time/layer phase space. Both Lagrangian
versions and Hamiltonian versions of these problems are presented. Their
well-studied implementation in a discrete time/layer, while respected the
symplectic structure, is addressed. The Hamiltonian version provides a direct rationale for back propagation as a solution method for the canonical
momentum.

2

Introduction

Through the use of enhanced computational capability two, seemingly unrelated, ‘inverse’ problems have flourished over the past decade. One is machine learning in the realm of artificial intelligence [1, 12, 21] with developments that often go under the name “deep learning”. The other is data
assimilation in the physical and life sciences. This describes the transfer of
information from observations to models of the processes producing those
observations [4, 9, 2].
This paper is directed towards demonstrating that these two areas of
investigation are the same at a fundamental level. Each is a statistical physics
problem where methods utilized in one may prove valuable for the other.
2

The main goal of the paper is to point out that many developments in data
assimilation can be utilized in the arena of machine learning. We also suggest
that innovative methods from machine learning may be valuable in data
assimilation.
Two areas of focus are attended to here: (1) a variational annealing (VA)
method for the action (cost function) for machine learning or statistical data
assimilation that permits the location of the apparent global minimum of
that cost function. (2) The notion of analyzing each problem in continuous
time or layer, which we call deepest learning, wherein it is clear that one
is addressing a two point boundary value problem [33, 11] with an underlying
symplectic structure. Methods abound for solving such two point boundary
value problems [27] and for assuring that symplectic structures are respected
when time (or layer) is discretized. These may be quite fruitful in machine
learning.
This paper primarily discusses multilayer perceptrons or feedforward networks [12] though it also makes it is clear that the discussion carries over to
recurrent networks as well [14, 8, 26].

3
3.1

Background
Machine Learning; Standard Feedforward Neural
Nets

We begin with a brief characterization of simple architectures in feedforward
neural networks [1, 12, 21]. The network we describe is composed of an input
layer l0 and output layer lF and hidden layers l1 , l2 , ..., lF − 1. Within each
layer we have N active units, called ‘neurons’, each of which has d degreesof-freedom. (Usually d is chosen to be 1.)
Each layer has N neurons with d degrees of freedom, so each layer has
D = N d degrees-of-freedom. For our purposes the ‘neurons’ in each layer
are the same structure. This can be generalized to different numbers and
different types of neurons in each layer at the cost of a notation explosion.
Data is available to layer l0 and layer lF in M pairs of L-dimensional
input, at l0 , and output, at lF . These are sets of vectors: {yr(k) (l0 ), yr(k) (lF )}
where k = 1, 2, ..., M labels the pairs, r is an index on the L-dimensional
data r = 1, 2, 3, ..., L ≤ D.
The activity of the units in each hidden layer l, x(k)
α (l); l0 < l < lF , is
3

determined by the activity in the previous layer. The index α combines the
neuron number j and the neuron degrees-of-freedom a into one label: α =
1, 2, ..., N d = D; j = 1, 2, ...N ; a = 1, 2, ...d. This connection is described by
the nonlinear function fα (•) via
x(k)
α (l) = fα (x(l − 1), l) = fα

NX
d=D

(k)



Wα β (l)xβ (l − 1) ,

(1)

β=1
(k)

(k)

(k)

where x(k) (l) = {x(k)
α (l)} = {x1 (l), x2 (l), ..., xN d (l)}. The summation over
weights Wα β (l) determines how the activities in layer l − 1 are combined
before allowing fα (•) to act, yielding the activities at layer l. There are
numerous choices for the manner in which the weight functions act as well
as numerous choices for the nonlinear functions, and we direct the reader to
the references for the discussion of the virtues of those choices [1, 12, 21].
At the input and the output layers l0 , lF the network activities are compared to the observations, and the network performance is assessed using an
error metric, often a least squares criterion, or cost function
CM



M 
L
1 X
1 X
(k)
(k)
2
(k)
(k)
2
=
Rm (r) [xr (l0 ) − yr (l0 )] + [xr (lF ) − yr (lF )]
, (2)
M k=1 2 L r=1

where Rm (r) permits an inhomogeneous weighting in the comparison of the
network activities and the data. Minimization of this cost function over all
xα(k) (l) and weights Wα β (l), subject to the network model Eq. (1), is used
to determine the weights, the variables x(k)
α (l)in all layers, and any other
parameters appearing in the architecture of the network.
Before moving along to data assimilation, we note that one wishes to
find the global minimum of the cost function Eq. (2), which is a nonlinear
function of the neuron activities, the weights and any other parameters in
the functions at each layer. This is an NP-complete problem [25] and as
such suggests one cannot find a global minimum of the machine learning
problem, as set, unless there is a special circumstance. We will see just such
a circumstance in a data assimilation problem equivalent to machine learning
tasks.
The machine learning problem as described here assumes there is no error
in the model itself, so that the minimization of the cost function Eq. (2)
is subject to strong equality constraints through the model. This results
in the output at layer lF x(k) (lF ) being a very complicated function of the
parameters in the model and the activities at layers x(k) (l ≤ lF ). This is likely
4

connected with the many local minima associated with the NP-complete
nature of the search problem.
We introduce a variational annealing (VA) method in the next section
which regularizes this by moving the equality constraint into the cost function
via a penalty function. This introduces a hyperparameter allowing us to
systematically vary the complexity of the search process.

3.2

Standard Statistical Data Assimilation

Now we describe the formulation of a statistical data assimilation problem.
In data assimilation observations are made of a sparse set of dynamical
variables, associated with a model of the processes producing the observations. This will allow the estimation of parameters in the model and of the
unobserved state variables of the model. The goal is to estimate any unknown parameters in the model, and because not all of the dynamical state
variables in the model may be observed, to estimate those unmeasured state
variables as well. After a certain time window in which information is transferred to the model, we have an estimate of the full model including an initial
condition for all state variables, and predictions are made with the completed
model and compared to new observations. This validation by prediction is
essentially the same as the question of generalization as addressed in machine
learning [12].
In data assimilation, one has a window in time [t0 , tF ] during which observations are made at times t = {τ1 , τ2 , ..., τF } which lie in [t0 ≤ τs ≤ tF ]; s =
1, 2, ..., F . At each observation time L measurements yl (τs ); l = 1, 2, ..., L
are made, L ≤ D. Through knowledge of the measurement instruments the
observations are related to the state variables of the model via ‘measurement
functions’ hl (x) : yl (τk ) = hl (x(τk )); l = 1, 2, ..., L.
Using what knowledge we have of the processes producing the observations, we develop a dynamical model for the state variables. These satisfy a
set of D dynamical differential equations
dxa (t)
= Fa (x(t), t); a = 1, 2, ..., D.
dt

(3)

The time dependence of the vector field F(x, t) may come from external
forcing functions driving the dynamics.
This set of differential equations will necessarily be represented in discrete
time when solving them numerically, resulting in a map xa (tk ) → xa (tk+1 ) =
5

fa (x(tk ), tk ) in which the discrete time vector field fa (•) is related to Fa (x, t)
via the integration procedure one chooses for Eq. (3).
Starting from an initial condition at t0 , xa (t0 ) we use the discrete time
model
xa (tk+1 ) = fa (x(tk ), tk )
(4)
to move forward to the first observation time τ1 , then to τ2 , ... eventually
reaching the end of the observation window at tF . Altogether by making N
model integration steps in each of the intervals [τn , τn+1 ] we make (F + 1)N
time steps.: t0 → τ1 → τ2 ... → τF → tF .
The measurements are noisy, and the models have errors; so this is a statistical problem. Our goal is to construct the conditional probability distribution, P (X|Y), of the model states X(tF ) = {x(t0 ), x(t1 ), ..., x(tN ), ..., x(tF )},
conditioned on the LF measurements Y(τF ) = {y(τ1 ), y(τ2 ), ..., y(τk ), ..., y(τF )}.
Assuming the transition to the model state at time tk+1 depends only
on the model state at time tk (that is, the dynamics in Eq. (4) is Markov)
and using identities on conditional probabilities [2], one may write the action
A(X) = − log[P (X|Y)] (suppressing the dependence on the observations Y
in A(X)) as
A(X) = −

F
X

CM I[X(τn ), y(τn )|Y(τn−1 )]

n=1
N (F +1)−1

−

X

log[P (x(tn+1 )|x(tn ))] − log[P (x(t0 ))],

(5)

n=0

where
the conditional
mutual information is given as [10] CM I(a, b|c) =


log

P (a,b|c)
P (a|c) P (b|c)

. If the model is error free, P (x(tn+1 )|x(tn )) is a delta function:

P (x(tn+1 )|x(tn )) = δ D (x(tn+1 ) − f (x(tn ), tn )).
With a representation of P (X|Y) we may evaluate conditional expected
values of functions G(X) on the path X(N F ) of the model through the
observation window [t0 , tF ] as
R

E[G(X)|Y] = hG(X)i =

dX G(X) exp[−A(X)]
R
,
dX exp[−A(X)]

in which
A(X) = −

F
X

log[P (y(τn )|X(τn ), Y(τn−1 )]

n=1

6

(6)

N (F +1)−1

X

−

log P [(x(tn+1 )|x(tn ))] − log[P (x(t0 ))],

(7)

n=0

and terms depending only on the observations were canceled between numerator and denominator in the expected value.
If the observations at the times τk are independent, and if the measurement function is the identity yr (τk ) = hr (x(τk )) = xr (τk ), and if the noise
in the measurements is Gaussian, with a diagonal inverse covariance matrix
Rm (r, τk ), the first term in the action A(X), the measurement error term,
takes the form

2
F X
L
X
Rm (r, τn )
(8)
xr (τn ) − yr (τn ) .
2
n=1 r=1
If no measurement is made at τk , Rm (r, τk ) = 0.
If the error in the model Eq. (4) is taken as additive and Gaussian with
diagonal inverse covariance matrix Rf (a) the second term in A(X), the model
error term, becomes
N (F +1)−1 D
X
X
n=0

2

Rf (a)
xa (tn+1 ) − fa (x(tn ), tn )
2
a=1


.

(9)

In each term constants having to do with normalizations of the Gaussians
cancel in the expected value. If we keep these constants and take the limit
Rf (a) → ∞, we would restore the delta function in the dynamics.
Finally, if one accepts ignorance of the distribution of initial conditions
P (x(t0 )) and selects it as uniform over the dynamical range of the model
variables, hG(X)i is evaluated with
A0 (X) =


L
F X
X
Rm (r, τn )

2

n=1 r=1
N (F +1)−1 D

+

X

X Rf (a) 

n=0

a=1

2
R

hG(X)i =

2

xr (τn ) − yr (τn )

xa (tn+1 ) − fa (x(tn ), tn )

dX G(X) exp[−A0 (X)]
R
,
dX exp[−A0 (X)]

2

.

(10)

(11)

This is the desired connection between the machine learning formulation
(with model error) and the statistical data assimilation formulation: identify
layer labels as time l ⇔ t.
7

This alone could be of passing interest. However, there is much in the
connection that may be of some utility. We will discuss these items in the
data assimilation language, but the translation should be easy at this point.
For statistical data assimilation we call this A0 (X) the standard model.
The critical suggestion here relative to standard practice in machine learning [1, 12, 21], is that by allowing Rf to be finite from the outset–so acknowledging model error–we may add an additional tool for exploration in machine
learning environments where typically no account for model error is introduced. Further, the hyper-parameter Rf serves as a regulating device for the
complexity of the surface in path space in which the estimation of states and
parameters occurs.

4
4.1

Data Assimilation Developments of Use in
Machine Learning
Finding the Global Minimum

The key to establishing estimates for unobserved state variables (L < D) and
for unknown parameters in the model is to perform, approximately of course,
the integral Eq. (11). One can do this using Monte Carlo methods [18] or
by the method of Laplace [19, 20]. In the Laplace method one seeks minima
of the action A0 (X), Eq. (10). The integral is not Gaussian. If it were, we
would just do it. As the functions fa (•) are nonlinear, we must perform a
numerical evaluation of Eq. (6).
The Laplace method approximates the integral with contributions from
the lowest minima of the action, if one can find them. Minima associated
with paths X having larger action give exponentially smaller contributions
to expected values, Eq. (11), than paths with smaller action. This allows
one to circumvent a search for the global minimum if the parameters, hyperparameters [12], and other aspects of the model and data yield a set of action
levels connected with minima of the action such that one path yields an action level much smaller than any other path. For numerical accuracy one
may use that smallest minimum path (comprised of parameters and ‘hidden’
(unobserved) state variables) neglecting larger minima of the action.
We have developed a variational annealing (VA) approach [32, 33], to
finding the path with the smallest value of the action. While we have no
proof that the global minimum is found, our numerical results indicate this
8

may be the case. The VA method produces a set of minima of the action
giving a numerical clue as to the roughness of the surface in path X space.
In data assimilation the surface depends, among other items, on the number of measurements L at each observation time τk , on the hyper-parameter
Rf , and on the number of model time steps between measurement times τn .
This translates directly to the analogous machine learning problem with time
→ layer. As the number of model time steps between measurement times
increases, the number of hidden layers increases and the model architecture
deepens.
VA proceeds by a kind of numerical continuation [3] in Rf of the requirement that varying over all X and all parameters in A0 (X) minimizes A0 (X).
The procedure begins by taking Rf → 0, namely the complete opposite of
the value found in usual machine learning where Rf → ∞ (deterministic,
error free layer to layer maps) from the outset. In the Rf = 0 limit, the
action is just a quadratic function of the model variables x(τk ) at the times
measurements are made, and the minimization is simple: xr (τk ) = yr (τk ) for
the r = 1, 2, ..., L ≤ D data presented at the input and output layers. The
minimum can be degenerate as we know only L ≤ D values for the state
variables.
At the first step of VA we choose as a solution to the optimization problem
xr (τk ) = yr (τk ) and select the other D−L states as drawn from a uniform distribution with ranges known from the dynamical range of the state variables.
One can learn that well enough by solving the underlying model forward for
various initial conditions. We make this draw K times, and now have K paths
X0 as candidates for the VA procedure.
Now we select a small value for Rf , call it Rf 0 . With the previous K
paths X0 as K initial choices in our minimization algorithm, we find K paths
X1 for the minimization problem with Rf = Rf 0 . This gives us K values of
the action A0 (X1 ) associated with the new paths X1 .
Next we increase the value of Rf to Rf = Rf 0 α where α > 1. (We have
found values of α in the range 1.1 to 2 to be good choices). For this new value
of Rf , we perform the minimization of the action starting with the K initial
paths X1 from the previous step to arrive at K new paths X2 . Evaluating the
action on these paths A0 (X2 ) now gives us an ordered set of actions that are
no longer as degenerate. Many of the paths X2 may give the same numerical
value of the action, however,
typically the ‘degeneracy’ lies within the noise
√
level of the data ≈ (1/ Rm ).
This procedure is continued until Rf is ‘large enough’ which is indicated
9

by at least one of the action levels becoming substantially independent of
Rf . As a check on the calculation, we observe that if the action A0 (X) is
independent of Rf , its expected value is that of the measurement error term.
As the measurement errors were taken to be Gaussian, this term in the action
is distributed as χ2 , and its expected value is readily evaluated. If the action
levels are at this expected value of χ2 for large Rf , the procedure is consistent
and no further increases in Rf are required.
Effectively VA starts with a problem (Rf = 0) where the global minimum is apparent and systematically tracks it and many other paths through
increases in Rf . In doing the ‘tracking’ of the global minimum, one must
check that the selected value of α is not too large lest one leave the global
minimum and land in another minimum. Checking the result using smaller
α is worthwhile.
It is important to note that simply starting with a large value of Rf places
one in the undesirable situation of the action A0 (X) having multiple local
minima into which any optimization procedure is quite likely to fall.
In the dynamical problems we have examined, one typically finds that as
the number of measurements L at each τk is increased, fewer and fewer minima of the action remain and when L is large enough there is one minimum.
This we attribute to the additional information from the augmented set of
measurements, and this will be manifest in the discussion below where the
additional information effectively controls unstable directions in the phase
space.

4.2

Smallest Minimum; Not Necessarily a Convex Action

As our goal is to provide accurate estimations of the conditional expected
value of functions G(X) where X, a path in model space, is distributed as
exp[−A(X)], we actually do not require convexity of A(X) as a function in
path space. From the point of view of accurately estimating expected values,
it is sufficient that the lowest action level be much smaller than the second
lowest action level. If the action value at the lowest level A(Xlowest ) is
much smaller than the action value at the next minimum A(Xsecond lowest ),
then by a factor exp[−{A(Xlowest ) − A(Xsecond lowest )}], the lowest path
Xlowest dominates the integral to be done and provides a sensible choice for
the path at which to evaluate the integral.

10

5

Examples from Feedforward Neural Networks and from Data Assimilation

In this section we examine one example from multi-layer perceptrons and one
example from statistical data assimilation. The latter utilizes a differential
equation model introduced by Lorenz in 1996 [23] which permits one to easily
increase the number of dimensions of the phase space, to easily select the
number of observations within a designated measurement window, and to
easily choose the number of model evaluations between measurement times.
The latter is analogous to increasing the number of layers in a multi-layer
perceptron.
In each case we perform a ‘twin experiment’. We use a model to generate
solutions from some initial conditions. These solutions, when Gaussian noise
is added to them, become our noisy data. Using the noisy data we use
VA to estimate the unobserved state variables (hidden layer variables) and
parameters/weights.

5.1

Data Assimilation for Lorenz96 Model

We begin by examining the dynamical equations introduced by [23]:
dxa (t)
= xa−1 (t)(xa+1 (t) − xa−2 (t)) − xa (t) + ν
dt

(12)

and a = 1, 2, ..., D; x−1 (t) = xD−1 (t); x0 (t) = xD (t); xD+1 (t) = x1 (t). ν is a
fixed parameter which we take to be 10.0 where the solutions to the dynamical
equations are chaotic [16]. The equations for the states xa (t); a = 1, 2, ..., D
are meant to describe ‘weather stations’ on a periodic spatial lattice. This
model is widely used in atmospheric science as a testbed for the exploration
of innovative data assimilation ideas.
Our example selects D = 11, and displays the action level plot for L =
2, 4, 5, and 6 observations at each measurement time within the window
[t0 , tF ]. We perform a ‘twin experiment’ wherein we generate D time series
{xa (t); a = 1, 2, ..., D} for Eq. (12) using a standard adaptive fourth order
Runge-Kutta algorithm with a time step ∆t = 0.025 and an initial condition
x(t0 ) drawn from a uniform distribution over the range of the variables x(t),
namely [-10, +10]. To these solutions of Eq. (12) we add Gaussian noise
with mean zero and variance σ 2 = 0.2 to each time series xa (t). These noisy
11

versions of our model time series constitute our ‘data’ {ya (t)}. L of these D
time series are presented to the model at times τn ; t0 ≤ τn ≤ tF .
The measurement window is from t0 = 0 to tF = 4.125. L = 2, 4, 5, 6
‘measurements’ are made at each time step; these are the y(τn ). The measurement error matrix Rm is taken to have diagonal elements at each measurement time τn and is zero at other times. Its magnitude is taken as
Rm = 1/σ 2 = 5.
The model error matrix Rf (a) is also taken as diagonal, with elements
along the diagonal Rf = Rf 0 2β , in performing the VA procedure, and we
take β = 0, 1, 2, . . . . Rf 0 was chosen 0.01.
The minimizations of nonlinear objective functions in the example using the Lorenz96 model was performed using the public domain software
IPOPT [30] with a front end script written in Python.
In Fig. (1) we display action level plots for L = 2, 3, 4, and 6 observations
at each measurement time. As we can see in the TopLeftPanel, where
L = 2, there are numerous local minima in the action A0 (X) for all values of
Rf ≥ Rf 0 , and these remain to large Rf . None of these minima is very far
separated from the paths with the smallest minimum, so that the evaluation
of the expected value integrals Eq. (11) would require contributions from
many maxima of the conditional probability distribution.
When L = 4, TopRightPanel we begin to see an isolated action level
whose contribution to the expected value integral is overwhelmingly larger
than the contribution from path giving rise to the next largest action level.
The value L = 4 is consistent with the observation in [16] that around 0.4D
the instabilities in the Lorenz96 state space appear to be controlled by the
data assimilation process.
At L = 5 or 6, BottomPanels, we see that the dominance of the lowest
action level is even clearer. The horizontal olive colored line is the expected
value of the measurement error term in the action. This is a sign of the
consistency of the data assimilation calculations.
In Fig. (2) we explore another aspect of the action level plots. We
still use D = 11, and we hold L = 6 fixed. The number of observations
within the window [t0 , tF ] has been reduced from 165 to 28 and we move
the model forward between observations 0, 2, 5 or 11 times. This is to
provide an analogy to how many layers are present in an equivalent machine
learning example. Our example here differs by having many entry points in
the measurement window while the machine learning example has only one.
We display in the LeftPanel the action level plots for the selected number
12

of model evaluation steps. As one can see for 0 and 2 intermediate steps we
have many persisting minima of the action. At 5 and 11 intermediate steps,
there is only a single minimum that is found, and for large Rf it comes to the
same action level as with 2 intermediate steps. All are consistent with the
expected value of the measurement error term. This calculation, performed
in a machine learning context provides information on how many hidden
layers are required to achieve a desired accuracy.
In the RightPanel we display the accuracy of the estimation of the single
parameter in the Lorenz96 model. It has been set at ν = 10.0 in producing
the data, and that value is clearly selected for 5 or 11 intermediate model
evaluations, while it is not so clearly selected for 2 intermediate steps and
with zero intermediate steps there is a consistent few percent error.
We see, in this collection of calculations, as noted earlier [32, 33], the ability to identify the dominant minimum of the action depends on the number
of measurements presented during the statistical data assimilation procedure
embodying transfer of information from the data to the model. In data assimilation this is associated with the number of positive conditional Lyapunov
exponents [16] of the model. In the machine learning instantiation it may
play the same role when the number of data presented at the output layer is
not sufficient to determine the parameters and hidden states in each layer.
We also see the analogue of deepening the network produces higher accuracy estimates of conditional expected values.

5.2

A Multi-Layer Perceptron; Feedforward Network

We constructed a feedforward network with lF layers: One input layer at
l0 and one output layer at lF . This network has lF − 2 hidden layers. We
analyzed lF = 20, 30, 50 and 100. There are N = 10 ‘neurons’ in each layer.
The activity in neuron j in layer l xj (l) is related to xj (l − 1) in the previous
layer as
z
(13)
xj (l) = g(W (l)x(l − 1)); g(z) = 0.5[1 + tanh( )].
2
We also investigated the “ReLU”-like function g(z) = log[1 + ez ], but we do
not report on those results. The activations at the input layer are drawn from
a Gaussian N (0, 1). The weights are selected from a uniform distribution
U [−0.1, 0.1]. Gaussian measurement noise was added to the ‘data’ generated
by the model; this has zero mean and variance 0.0025.

13

Figure 1: Action level plots for the Lorenz96 model Eq. (12) with D = 11
and ν = 10.0. The variational annealing procedure is performed with 100
different initial conditions for the minimization of the action at each value
of Rf = Rf 0 αβ ; β = 0, 1, ...; α = 2. Top Left Panel: L = 2 measurements
at each measurement time. At L = 2, there are many minima, but none so
much smaller than the others that it dominates the expected value integral
Eq. (11). Top Right Panel: L = 4 measurements at each measurement
time. At L = 4, the action in path space X has numerous local minima. The
lowest minimum has an action value much smaller than the action values
from the other minima, and this dominates the expected value integral Eq.
(11). Bottom Left Panel: L = 5 measurements at each measurement time.
At L = 5, the number of minima found is only two, and again the lowest
minimum dominates the expected value integral. Bottom Right Panel L
= 6 measurements at each measurement time. At L = 6, there is only one
minimum of the action. The solid green line is the expected value of the
measurement error term. This is distributed as χ2 . As the action becomes
independent of Rf , its expected value should equal this value.
14

Figure 2: Parameter estimation and action level results for the Lorenz96
model, D = 11, L = 6. The parameter value ν = 10.0 was used in the twin
experiments on the model. Observations were made every ∆tobs = 0.15, and L
= 6 measurements were made at each observation time. Left Panel: Action
Level Estimates These are the action levels when L = 6 observations are
made at each measurement time and with the choice of 0, 2, 5, and 11
model evaluation steps between measurement times. The horizontal olive
green line indicates the expected action level for large Rf . Right Panel
Parameter estimates Between the observations the model was evaluated
0, 2, 5 and 11 times leading to ∆tmodel = 1.0, 0.33, 0.16, and 0.08 ∗∆tobs .
The parameter estimates are quite accurate for 5 and for 11 model time
steps between observations. They are more distributed for 0 or 2 model step
between observations. One can associate the idea of increasing the number
of model steps between observations as equivalent to ‘deepening’ the hidden
(unobserved) layers. The horizontal olive green line indicates the parameter
value, 10.0, used in generating the data.

15

Our data are for the twin experiment, where we know all weights, all
inputs and generate all values of x(l) in each layer [l0 , lF ]. These are recorded,
and Gaussian noise with mean zero and variance 0.0025 is added to the data
at layers l0 = 1 and lF starting from known values x(l0 ). These data are
yi (1) for the input layer and yi (20) for the output layer.
M input/output pairs are presented to the model with L = 1, 5, and 10
(k)
(k)
inputs yi (l0 ) at layer l0 and L = 1, 5, 10 data outputs yi (lF ) at layer lF .
k = 1,2,...,M, and we investigated M = 1, 10, 100.
We minimize the action over all the weights and the states x(k)
a (l) at all
layers of the model:

M 
L 
Rm X
1 X
(k)
(k)
(k)
(k)
2
2
(xr (l0 ) − yr (l0 )) + (xi (lF ) − yi (lF ))
AM (X) =
M k=1 2L r=1
lF
−1 X
N
X
Rf
x(k) (l + 1) − g(W (l)x(k) (l))
N (lF − 1) l=1 a=1 a

2 



+

,

(14)

where we have N = 10 neurons in each layer and L ≤ N data at the input l0
and at the output layers lF .
We use the variational annealing procedure described above to identify
the action levels for various paths through the network. The initial value of
Rf 0 /Rm is taken to be 10−8 and this is incremented via Rf /Rm = Rf 0 αβ
with α = 1.1 and β = 0, 1, ...,.
In the numerical optimizations for the machine learning example we used
L-BFGS-B [5, 34].
There are at least two ways to present more information to the model in
this setting:
• increase the number of training pairs available to the network at l0 and
lF ; this is our number M . M can be chosen as large as the user wishes.
• increase the number of components of the input/output pair vectors;
this is our number L. L ≤ N , the number of neurons in l0 or lF .
The resolution of the model in its ability to capture variations in activity
from layer to layer is improved by increasing the number of layers lF .
In Fig. (3) we explore the action levels as a function of Rf /Rm as we
increase the number of layers lF in the model: lF = 20, 30, 50, 100. We hold
fixed the number of neurons N = 10, the number of training pairs M = 100
and the number of inputs and outputs L = 10 at l0 and lF .
16

In each case there are many local minima, but only when lf = 50 does
the lowest action minimum significantly split from the other action minima
and qualify to dominate the expected value integral Eq. (11). When lF is
increased from 50 to 100, the lowest action minimum comes closer to the
second lowest minimum. This is seen as a result of the much larger number
of weights to be estimated at the latter value of lF while we are holding
fixed through the values of L and M the information available to make those
estimations.
In Fig. (4) we hold M fixed at 100, and lF fixed at 50 while we look at
L = 1, 5, 10 values of the dimension of input/output pairs.
In Fig. (5) we hold fixed the number of layers lF , the number of neurons
in each layer N = 10 and the dimension of the input/output vectors yr(k) (l0 )
and yr(k) (lF ); r = 1, 2, ..L = 10. We show the effect of increasing the number
of input/output pairs from M = 1 to M = 10 to M = 100. The emergence
of a lowest action minimum as M increases is displayed. This can serve as a
candidate for approximating Eq. (11).
In Fig. (6) we display the error in prediction after the mode, with lF = 50
layers, has been set by the estimation of the weights. This error is constructed
by selecting MP new input output pairs. Using each of the input elements
for L ≤ N components, we use the model with our estimated weights to
(k)
evaluate x(k)
r (lF ) and compare that with yr (lF ) from each of the MP pairs.
The square error averaged over L presented components and over MP pairs
MP X
L
1 X
(xr(k) (lF ) − yr(k) (lF ))2
LMP k=1 r=1

(15)

is displayed.
We see that increasing the information presented via increasing L or M
leads to decreased average prediction errors when choosing the path corresponding to the lowest action level, Top Layers, or choosing the path
associated with the second lowest action level Bottom Panel. The differences in quality of prediction (or generalization) in these examples among
the cases analyzed is not large, and this has been noted [12].

5.3

Recurrent Networks

In this network architecture one allows both interactions among neurons
from one layer to another layer as well as interactions among neurons within
17

Figure 3: Holding the number of neurons in each layer fixed at 10, the
number of input/output pairs fixed at M = 100, and the number of inputs
and outputs at l0 and lF fixed at L = 10, we vary the number of layers (the
deepening of the network) and examine the action level plots arising from the
variational annealing procedure. Upper Left Panel lF = 20 Top Right
Panel lF = 30 Bottom Left Panel lF = 50 and Bottom Right Panel
lF = 100.

18

Figure 4: Holding the number of neurons fixed N = 10, the number of layers
fixed lF = 50, and the number of input/output training pairs fixed M = 100,
we display the action levels as we vary the number of inputs at l0 and the
number of outputs at lF . Top Left Panel L = 1. Top Right Panel L = 5.
Bottom Panel L = 10.

19

Figure 5: Holding the number of neurons fixed N = 10, the number of layers
fixed lF = 50, and the number of inputs L = 10 at l0 and the number of
outputs at lF , we display the action levels as we vary the number of training
pairs M . Top Left Panel M = 1. Top Right Panel M = 10. Bottom
Panel M = 100.

20

Figure 6:

Prediction Errors for the AI/Machine Learning Network
(k)
(k)
2
r=1 (xr (lF ) − yr (lF )) averaged over MP new input/output
k=1
pairs. A noisy input yr(k) (l0 ) produces the output x(k)
r (lF ) using the model estimated using the M training sets. This is compared with the output yr(k) (lF )
produced with the original model used to produce the ‘data’ for the twin
experiment. In each case the number of neurons is N = 10 and lF = 50. Top
Left Panel Using the model associated with lowest Action Level: L = 10
and M = 1 and M = 10. Top Right Panel Using the model associated with
lowest Action Level: L = 5 and L = 10; M = 100. Bottom Panel Using
the model associated with the second lowest Action Level: L = 5 and 10; M
= 100.
1
LMP

PMP PL

21

a single layer [14, 8]. The activity xj (l) of neuron j, j = 1,2,...,N in layer l
P
{l0 , l1 , ..., lF } is given by xj (l) = f [ i wji (l)xi (l − 1)] in a feedforward, layer
goes to the next layer, network.
We can add interactions with a layer in the same fashion, and to give
some ‘dynamics’ to this within-layer activity we introduce a sequential label
σ to the activity of neuron j in layer l: xj (l, σ). The mapping from layer to
layer and within a layer can be summarized by
xj (l, σ) = f [

X

wji (l)xi (l − 1, σ) +

i

X

Wji (l)xj (l, σ − 1)],

(16)

i

Another version of this allows the nonlinear function to be different for layerto-layer connections and within-layer connections, so
xj (l, σ) = f [

X

X

wji (l)xi (l − 1, σ)] + g[

i

Wji (l)xj (l, σ − 1)],

(17)

i

where f (x) and g(x) can be different nonlinear functions.
We can translate these expressions into the DA structure by recognizing
that xj (l) is the ‘model variable’ in the layer-to-layer function while in the
recurrent network, the state variables become xj (l, σ). It seems natural that
as dimensions of connectivity are added–here going from solely feedforward
to that plus within-layer connections–that additional independent variables
would be aspects of the ‘neuron’ state variables’ representation.
In adding connections among the neurons within a layer we have another
independent variable, we called it σ, and the ‘point’ neurons depending on
layer alone become fields xj (l, σ). In the machine learning/AI networks
we have no restrictions on the number of independent variables. This may
lead to the investigation of ‘neural’ fields φj (v) where v is a collection of
independent variables indicating which layers are involved in the progression
of the field from an input to an output layer.
However many independent variables and however many ‘neurons’ we
utilize in the architecture of our model network, the overall goal of identifying
the conditional probability distribution P (X|Y) and estimating the moments
or expected values of interest still comes down to one form or another in the
approximation of integrals such as Eq. (6).

22

5.4

Making Time Continuous; Continuous Layers: Deepest Learning

There is much to learn about the data assimilation or machine learning problem as the number of layers or equivalently the number of time points within
an epoch becomes very large. The limit of the action where the number
of layers in an epoch becomes a continuous variable is, in data assimilation
notation [15],
Z tF

A0 (x(t), ẋ(t)) =

dt L(x(t), ẋ(t), t)
t0
L
X

2

Rm (l, t)
L(x(t), ẋ(t), t) =
xr (t) − yr (t)
2
r=1


+


D
X
Rf (a)
a=1

2

2

x˙a (t) − Fa (x(t))

.

In this formulation the quantity Rm (l, t) is non-zero only near the times
t ≈ τk . It can be taken as proportional to δ(t − τk ).
Within the machine learning context we call this ‘deepest learning’ as the
number of layers goes to infinity in a useful manner.
The minimization of the action now requires that the paths
 x(t) in {x(t), ẋ(t)}
d ∂L(x(t),ẋ(t),t)
= ∂L(x(t),ẋ(t),t) ,
space satisfy the Euler-Lagrange equation
dt

∂ ẋa (t)

∂xa (t)

along with the boundary conditions δxa (t0 )pa (t0 ) = 0; δxa (tF )pa (tF ) = 0
where pa (t) = ∂L(x(t), ẋ(t), t)/∂ ẋa (t) is the canonical momentum.
For the standard model, the Euler-Lagrange equations take the form
Rf [

dxb (t)
d
δab + DFab (x(t))][
− Fb (x(t))] = Rm (l, t)δar (xr (t) − yr (t)), (18)
dt
dt

where we have DF(x) = ∂F(x)/∂x.
The E-L equations are the necessary condition, along with the accompanying boundary conditions, that show how errors represented on the right
hand side of the E-L equation drive the model variables at all layers to produce x(l) → y(l) where data is available.
In the integral for < G(X) >, the coordinates x(t0 ) and x(tF ) are not
restricted, so we have the ‘natural’ boundary conditions [11, 17, 22] pa (t0 ) = 0
and pa (tF ) = 0.
This shows quite clearly that the minimization problem requires a solution
of a two point boundary value problem in {x(t), v(t) = ẋ(t)} space. One way
to address two point boundary value problems is to start at one end, t0 with
a value of x(t0 ) and proceed from tF with a value of x(tF ) and integrate both
23

ways requiring a match [27]. Furthermore, the residual of the measurement
error term on the right hand side of Eq. (18) nudges the solution in x(t) to
the desired output.
If one were to specify x(t0 ), but not x(tF ), then the boundary conditions
for the Euler-Lagrange equation are the given x(t0 ) (δx(t0 ) = 0) and require
the canonical momentum pa (tF ) = 0. Examining the Hamiltonian dynamics
for this problem then suggest integrating the x(t) equation forward from
t0 and the canonical momentum equation backward from tF . This is back
propagation.
5.4.1

Hamiltonian Dynamics Realization

If one moves from the Lagrangian realization of the variational problem to a
Hamiltonian version by trading in the phase space from {x(t), v(t)} to canonical coordinates {x(t), p(t)}, then the Hamiltonian H(x, p) for the standard
model reads
H(x, p, t) =

D 
X
pa (t)pa (t)
a=1

2Rf (a)



+ pa (t)Fa (x(t)) −

L
X
Rm (r, t)
r=1

2

(xr (t) − yr (t))2 . (19)

In these coordinates the equations of motion are then given by Hamilton’s
equations
dpa (t)
∂Fb (x(t))
= −pb (t)
+ δar Rm (r, t)(xr (t) − yr (t))
dt
∂xa (t)
dxa (t)
pa (t)
= Fa (x(t)) +
.
dt
Rf (a)

(20)

Returning from this to discrete time (or layers) we see that if the variational principle is carried out in {x, p} space, the boundary conditions
pa (t0 ) = pa (tF ) = 0 are quite easy to impose while the other variables,
all the xa (tk ) and the pa (tk ); k 6= 0, F , are varied. Going forward in x and
backward in p is neither required nor suggested by this formulation. It is
worth noting that in either {x, v} space or {x, p} space, the continuous time
(layer) formulation has a symplectic symmetry [11, 15]. This not automatically maintained when the discrete time (layer) problem is reinstated [24, 31];
however, many choices of integration procedure in which time/layer becomes
discrete and the symplectic symmetry is maintained are known [24, 31, 13]
In a detailed analysis [15, 33] of the variational problem in Lagrangian
and Hamiltonian formulations, it appears that the direct Lagrangian version
24

in which the state variables x(tn ) or x(ln ) are varied, the symplectic structure
can be maintained and the boundary conditions on the canonical momentum
respected [24, 31].
In practice, this means that the direct variational methods suggested for
the machine learning problems taking into account model error (Rf 6= ∞)
may skirt issues associated with back propagation. This issue may be seen a
bit more directly by comparing how one moves in {x(t), ẋ(t)} space organized
by Eq. (18) with the motion in {x(t), p(t)} space guided by Eq. (20). These
are equivalent motions of the model in time/layer, connected by a Legendre
transformation from {x(t), ẋ(t)} → {x(t), p(t)}.
In the Hamiltonian form, where Rf → ∞ is the limit where one usually
works, moving in regions where DF(x) may have saddle points may ‘slow
down’ the progression in the canonical momentum p(t). This may occur at a
maximum, at a minimum, or at a saddle point of DF(x). At any of these the
observation in [21]: “The analysis seems to show that saddle points with only
a few downward curving directions are present in very large numbers, but
almost all of them have very similar values of the objective function. Hence,
it does not much matter which of these saddle points the algorithm gets
stuck at.” may apply. In the Lagrangian formulation Eq. (18) the manner
in which DF(x) enters the motion is quite different and may well avoid this
confounding property. We have pointed out that Eq. (20) is backprop. The
use of the Lagrangian variational principle [24, 31] solves the same problem,
so may have an unexpected virtue.

6

Summary and Discussion

This paper has been directed to drawing a direct analogy between the formulation of a much utilized class of machine learning problems and a set of
equivalent problems in data assimilation as encountered in many physical,
biological and geoscience problems as well as in many engineering analyses
where data driven model development and testing is a goal. The fundamental
equivalence of the two inquiries is the core of this paper.
The analogy allows us to identify methods developed in data assimilation
as potentially quite useful in machine learning contexts. In particular the
possibility of using variational annealing to produce the global minimum of
the action (cost function) of the standard model of data assimilation with
both observation error and model error appears potentially of value.
25

The idea of making time continuous for purposes of exploring properties of
data assimilation suggests a similar tactic in machine learning. The machine
learning step of making layers continuous we have called “deepest learning”
as deep learning appears to result from increasing the number of layers. In
the continuous layer (time) formulation, we see clearly that the problem to
be solved is a two point boundary value problem. This may lead to the
construction and solution of tractable models that may helpfully illuminate
how deep learning networks operate successfully and expand the possibilities
of utilizing them employing additional methods for numerical calculations
and for interpretation.
In the formulation of the statistical data assimilation problem at the general level expressed in Eq. (5) we see that the measurement error term which
is where information from data is passed to the model, it is explicitly information through the conditional mutual information that is being passed from
observations to the model. This suggests that the idea that deep learning
works because of major increases in computing power as well as in having
large data sets, however, the attribute of the data sets is not so much as they
are large but that they possess information, in a precise manner, that can be
utilized to learn about models. The conjunction of information transfer and
state and parameter estimation is embodied in the work of Rissanen [28, 29]
where he identifies the cost of estimating a parameter or a state variable at
some time. The arguments we have presented suggest evaluating how much
information in a data set is available to inform a model is of greater utility
than just the size of the data set itself.
One point not made explicit in the main text, but worth noting, is that
once we have formulated the data assimilation or machine learning problems
as accurately performing high dimensional integrals such as Eq. (6), the
Laplace approximation method, namely the usual variational principle, permits the investigation of corrections through further terms in the expansion
of the action about the path leading to the global minimum. In [33] it is
shown that corrections to this first approximation are small as Rf becomes
large when analyzing the standard model. This need not be the case for
other choices of noise distributions in the measurement error or model error
terms in the action.
Another item of interest is the argument noted in [21] that as the dimension of a model increases, one may find fewer and fewer local minima
confounding the search in path space for a global minimum, and in that
situation many more unstable saddle points in path space will arise [7, 6].
26

In the case of a chaotic system such as the Lorenz96 model, the evidence
is that however large the dimension of the model itself and the paths over
which one may search, there are multiple local minima until the number of
measurements at any observation time is large enough and the information
transferred to the model is sufficient. The role of the number of model
evaluations between observations, suggested in some of the arguments here,
also play a significant part in establishing whether the action surface has
many local minima.
The view of a deep network as moving from a few hidden layers to many
may also be illuminated by our arguments. One idea is that by increasing
the number of hidden layers one is increasing the resolution in the analog
of ‘time’ in data assimilation. When one does that in data assimilation, we
see it as probing the variation of the underlying model as it evolves from
an initial condition through ‘layer’ = ‘time.’ Missing the higher frequency
variations in time by employing a coarse grid in discrete time should have its
counterpart role in the feedforward networks discussed here.
It is recognized that the ‘neuron’ models widely utilized in machine learning applications have little in common with properties of biological neurons,
the construction and implementation of large networks that have successful
function within machine learning may prove a useful guide for the construction and implementation of functional natural neural networks.
Finally, it is important to comment that while the analogy drawn and
utilized here may improve the testing and validation of models supported by
observational data, it does not assist in the selection of the models and their
formulation. That is still a task to be addressed by the user.

Acknowledgments
We express our appreciation to our colleagues Dan Breen and Jeff Elman
for important discussions. Also the CENI team made finding the analogs
in this paper possible. Many thanks to Tim Gentner, Gert Cauwenberghs,
and especially Gabe Silva improved the manuscript. Jon Shlens provided
a detailed view from the active world of machine learning. Partial support from the MURI Program (N00014-13-1-0205) sponsored by the Office
of Naval Research is acknowledged as is support for A. Shirman from the
ARCS Foundation.

27

References
[1] Perspectives on Research in Artificial Intelligence and Artificial
General Intelligence Relevant to DoD, 2017. https://www.google.
com/?gws_rd=ssl#q=perspectives+on+research+in+artificial+
intelligence+and+artificial+general+intelligence.
[2] Henry D. I. Abarbanel. Predicting the Future: Completing Models of
Observed Complex Systems. Springer, 2013.
[3] E. L. Allgower and K. Georg. Numerical Continuation Methods: An
Introduction. Springer-Verlag, 1990.
[4] A. F. Bennett. Inverse Methods in Physical Oceanography. Cambridge
University Press, 1992.
[5] R. H. Byrd, P. Lu, and J. Nocedal. A limited memory algorithm for
bound constrained optimization. SIAM Journal on Scientific and Statistical Computing, 16:1190–1208, 1995.
[6] Anna Choromanska, Mikael Henaff, Michael Mathieu, Ge’rard Ben
Arous, and Yann LeCun. The loss surfaces of multilayer networks. In
18th International Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Statistics
(AISTATS), 2015.
[7] Yann N. Dauphin, Razvan Pascanu, Caglar Gulcehre, Kyunghyun Cho,
Surya Ganguli, and Yoshua Bengio. Identifying and attacking the saddle point problem in high-dimensional non-convex optimization. In Proceedings of the 27th International Conference on Neural Information
Processing Systems, NIPS’14, pages 2933–2941, Cambridge, MA, USA,
2014. MIT Press.
[8] J. L. Elman. Finding structure in time. Cognitive Science, 14:179–211,
1990.
[9] Geir Evensen.
Springer, 2009.

Data Assimilation:

The Ensemble Kalman Filter.

[10] Robert M. Fano. Transmission of Information; A Statistical Theory of
Communication. MIT Press, 1961.

28

[11] I. M. Gelfand and S. V. Fomin. Calculus of Variations. Dover Publications, Inc., 1963.
[12] Ian Goodfellow, Yoshua Bengio, and Aaron Courville. Deep Learning. MIT Press, Cambridge, MA; London, UK, 2016. http://www.
deeplearningbook.org.
[13] Ernst Hairer, Gerhard Wanner, and Christian Lubich. Geometric Numerical Integration: Structure-Preserving Algorithms for Ordinary Differential Equations. Springer Series in Computational Mathematics; Volume 31, 2nd edition, 2006.
[14] M. Jordan. Attractor dynamics and parallelism in a connectionist sequential machine. In Proceedings of the Eighth Conference of the Cognitive Science Society, pages 531–546. Cognitive Science Society, 1986.
[15] N. Kadakia, D. Rey, J. Ye, and H. D. I. Abarbanel. Symplectic structure
of statistical variational data assimilation. Quarterly Journal of the
Royal Meteorological Society, 143(703):756–771, 2017.
[16] Mark Kostuk. Synchronization and statistical methods for the data
assimilation of hvc neuron models. PhD Dissertation in Physics, University of California, San Diego, 2012.
[17] Mark Kot. A First Course In the Calculus of Variations. American
Mathematical Society; Providence, Rhode Island., 2014.
[18] Rubin H. Landau, Manuel Jose’ Paez, and Cristian C. Bordeianu. A
Survey of Computational Physics: Introductory Computational Science.
Princeton University Press, 2010.
[19] Pierre Simon Laplace. Memoir on the probability of causes of events.
Mémoires de Mathématique et de Physique, Tome Sixième, pages 621–
656, 1774.
[20] Pierre Simon Laplace. Memoir on the probability of the causes of events.
Statistical Science, 1(3):364–378, 1986. Translation to English by S. M.
Stigler.
[21] Yann LeCunn, Yoshua Bengio, and Geoffrey Hinton. Deep learning.
Nature, 521:436–444, 2015.
29

[22] Daniel Liberzon. Calculus of Variations and Optimal Control Theory.
Princeton University Press, 2012.
[23] Edward N Lorenz. Predictability: A problem partly solved. In Tim
Palmer and Renate Hagedorn, editors, Predictability of weather and climate. Cambridge, 2006.
[24] J. E. Marsden and M. West. Discrete mechanics and variational integrators. Acta Numerica, pages 357–514, 2001.
[25] K. G. Murty and S. N. Kabadi. Some np-complete problems in quadratic
and nonlinear programming. Mathematical Programming, 39:117–129,
1987.
[26] Alexander G. Parlos, Kil T. Chong, and Amir F. Atiya. Application
of the recurrent multilayer perceptron in modeling complex process dynamics. IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks, 5:255–266, 1994.
[27] W. H. Press, S. A. Teukolsky, W. T. Vetterling, and B. P. Flannery.
Numerical Recipes: The Art of Scientific Computing, Third Edition.
Cambridge University Press, 2007.
[28] Jorma Rissanen. Stochastic Complexity in Statistical Inquiry Theory.
World Scientific Publishing Co., Inc., River Edge, NJ, USA, 1989.
[29] Jorma Rissanen. Information and Complexity in Statistical Modeling.
Springer, 2007.
[30] A. R. Wachter and L. T. Biegler. On the implementation of an interiorpoint filter line-search algorithm for large-scale nonlinear programming.
Mathematical programming, 106:25–57, 2006.
[31] J. M. Wendlandt and J. E. Marsden. Mechanical integrators derived
from a discrete variational principle. Physica D: Nonlinear Phenomena,
106:223–246, 1997.
[32] J. Ye, N. Kadakia, P. J. Rozdeba, H. D. I. Abarbanel, and J. C. Quinn.
Improved variational methods in statistical data assimilation. Nonlinear
Processes in Geophysics, 22(2):205–213, 2015.

30

[33] J. Ye, Daniel Rey, Nirag Kadakia, Michael Eldridge, Uri Morone, Paul
Rozdeba, Henry D. I. Abarbanel, and John C. Quinn. A systematic variational method for statistical nonlinear state and parameter estimation.
Physical Review E, 2015.
[34] C. Zhu, R. H. Byrd, and J. Nocedal. L-bfgs-b: Algorithm 778: L-bfgs-b,
fortran routines for large scale bound constrained optimization. ACM
Transactions on Mathematical Software, 23:550–560, 1997.

31



Summary:
This research paper covers the following topic: arXiv:1707.01415v1 [cs.AI] 5 Jul 2017

Machine Learning, Deepest Learning:
Statistical Data Assimilation Problems
Henry Abarbanel,
Department of Physics
and
Marine Physical Laboratory (Scripps Institution of Oceanography)
Center for Engineered Natural Intelligence
habarbanel@ucsd.edu
Paul Rozdeba
and
Sasha Shirman

Department of Physics
University of California, San Diego
9500 Gilman Drive, Mail Code 0374
La Jolla, CA 92093-0374, USA
Draft of July 6, 2017

1

1

Abstract

We formulate a strong equivalence between machine learning, artificial intelligence methods and the formulation of statistical data assimilation as
used widely in physical and biological sciences. The correspondence is that
layer number in the artificial network setting is the analog of time in the
data assimilation setting. Within the discussion of this equivalence we show
that adding more layers (making the network deeper) is analogous to adding
temporal resolution in a data assimilation framework.
How one can find a candidate for the global minimum of the cost functions
in the machine learning context using a method from data assimilation is
discussed. Calculations on simple models from each side of the equivalence
are reported.
Also discussed is a framework in which the time or layer label is taken
to be continuous, providing a differential equation, the Euler-Lagrange equation, which shows that the problem being solved is a two point boundary
value problem familiar in the discussion of variational methods. The use of
continuous layers is denoted “deepest learning”. These problems respect a
symplectic symmetry in continuous time/layer phase space. Both Lagrangian
versions and Hamiltonian versions of these problems are presented. Their
well-studied implementation in a discrete time/layer, while respected the
symplectic structure, is addressed. The Hamiltonian version provides a direct rationale for back propagation as a solution method for the canonical
momentum.

2

Introduction

Through the use of enhanced computational capability two, seemingly unrelated, ‘inverse’ problems have flourished over the past decade. One is machine learning in the realm of artificial intelligence [1, 12, 21] with developments that often go under the name “deep learning”. The other is data
assimilation in the physical and life sciences. This describes the transfer of
information from observations to models of the processes producing those
observations [4, 9, 2].
This paper is directed towards demonstrating that these two areas of
investigation are the same at a fundamental level. Each is a statistical physics
problem where methods utilized in one may prove valuable for the other.
2

The main goal of the paper is to point out that many developments in data
assimilation can be utilized in the arena of machine learning. We also suggest
that innovative methods from machine learning may be valuable in data
assimilation.
Two areas of focus are attended to here: (1) a variational annealing (VA)
method for the action (cost function) for machine learning or statistical data
assimilation that permits the location of the apparent global minimum of
that cost function. (2) The notion of analyzing each problem in continuous
time or layer, which we call deepest learning, wherein it is clear that one
is addressing a two point boundary value problem [33, 11] with an underlying
symplectic structure. Methods abound for solving such two point boundary
value problems [27] and for assuring that symplectic structures are respected
when time (or layer) is discretized. These may be quite fruitful in machine
learning.
This paper primarily discusses multilayer perceptrons or feedforward networks [12] though it also makes it is clear that the discussion carries over to
recurrent networks as well [14, 8, 26].

3
3.1

Background
Machine Learning; Standard Feedforward Neural
Nets

We begin with a brief characterization of simple architectures in feedforward
neural networks [1, 12, 21]. The network we describe is composed of an input
layer l0 and output layer lF and hidden layers l1 , l2 , ..., lF − 1. Within each
layer we have N active units, called ‘neurons’, each of which has d degreesof-freedom. (Usually d is chosen to be 1.)
Each layer has N neurons with d degrees of freedom, so each layer has
D = N d degrees-of-freedom. For our purposes the ‘neurons’ in each layer
are the same structure. This can be generalized to different numbers and
different types of neurons in each layer at the cost of a notation explosion.
Data is available to layer l0 and layer lF in M pairs of L-dimensional
input, at l0 , and output, at lF . These are sets of vectors: {yr(k) (l0 ), yr(k) (lF )}
where k = 1, 2, ..., M labels the pairs, r is an index on the L-dimensional
data r = 1, 2, 3, ..., L ≤ D.
The activity of the units in each hidden layer l, x(k)
α (l); l0 < l < lF , is
3

determined by the activity in the previous layer. The index α combines the
neuron number j and the neuron degrees-of-freedom a into one label: α =
1, 2, ..., N d = D; j = 1, 2, ...N ; a = 1, 2, ...d. This connection is described by
the nonlinear function fα (•) via
x(k)
α (l) = fα (x(l − 1), l) = fα

NX
d=D

(k)



Wα β (l)xβ (l − 1) ,

(1)

β=1
(k)

(k)

(k)

where x(k) (l) = {x(k)
α (l)} = {x1 (l), x2 (l), ..., xN d (l)}. The summation over
weights Wα β (l) determines how the activities in layer l − 1 are combined
before allowing fα (•) to act, yielding the activities at layer l. There are
numerous choices for the manner in which the weight functions act as well
as numerous choices for the nonlinear functions, and we direct the reader to
the references for the discussion of the virtues of those choices [1, 12, 21].
At the input and the output layers l0 , lF the network activities are compared to the observations, and the network performance is assessed using an
error metric, often a least squares criterion, or cost function
CM



M 
L
1 X
1 X
(k)
(k)
2
(k)
(k)
2
=
Rm (r) [xr (l0 ) − yr (l0 )] + [xr (lF ) − yr (lF )]
, (2)
M k=1 2 L r=1

where Rm (r) permits an inhomogeneous weighting in the comparison of the
network activities and the data. Minimization of this cost function over all
xα(k) (l) and weights Wα β (l), subject to the network model Eq. (1), is used
to determine the weights, the variables x(k)
α (l)in all layers, and any other
parameters appearing in the architecture of the network.
Before moving along to data assimilation, we note that one wishes to
find the global minimum of the cost function Eq. (2), which is a nonlinear
function of the neuron activities, the weights and any other parameters in
the functions at each layer. This is an NP-complete problem [25] and as
such suggests one cannot find a global minimum of the machine learning
problem, as set, unless there is a special circumstance. We will see just such
a circumstance in a data assimilation problem equivalent to machine learning
tasks.
The machine learning problem as described here assumes there is no error
in the model itself, so that the minimization of the cost function Eq. (2)
is subject to strong equality constraints through the model. This results
in the output at layer lF x(k) (lF ) being a very complicated function of the
parameters in the model and the activities at layers x(k) (l ≤ lF ). This is likely
4

connected with the many local minima associated with the NP-complete
nature of the search problem.
We introduce a variational annealing (VA) method in the next section
which regularizes this by moving the equality constraint into the cost function
via a penalty function. This introduces a hyperparameter allowing us to
systematically vary the complexity of the search process.

3.2

Standard Statistical Data Assimilation

Now we describe the formulation of a statistical data assimilation problem.
In data assimilation observations are made of a sparse set of dynamical
variables, associated with a model of the processes producing the observations. This will allow the estimation of parameters in the model and of the
unobserved state variables of the model. The goal is to estimate any unknown parameters in the model, and because not all of the dynamical state
variables in the model may be observed, to estimate those unmeasured state
variables as well. After a certain time window in which information is transferred to the model, we have an estimate of the full model including an initial
condition for all state variables, and predictions are made with the completed
model and compared to new observations. This validation by prediction is
essentially the same as the question of generalization as addressed in machine
learning [12].
In data assimilation, one has a window in time [t0 , tF ] during which observations are made at times t = {τ1 , τ2 , ..., τF } which lie in [t0 ≤ τs ≤ tF ]; s =
1, 2, ..., F . At each observation time L measurements yl (τs ); l = 1, 2, ..., L
are made, L ≤ D. Through knowledge of the measurement instruments the
observations are related to the state variables of the model via ‘measurement
functions’ hl (x) : yl (τk ) = hl (x(τk )); l = 1, 2, ..., L.
Using what knowledge we have of the processes producing the observations, we develop a dynamical model for the state variables. These satisfy a
set of D dynamical differential equations
dxa (t)
= Fa (x(t), t); a = 1, 2, ..., D.
dt

(3)

The time dependence of the vector field F(x, t) may come from external
forcing functions driving the dynamics.
This set of differential equations will necessarily be represented in discrete
time when solving them numerically, resulting in a map xa (tk ) → xa (tk+1 ) =
5

fa (x(tk ), tk ) in which the discrete time vector field fa (•) is related to Fa (x, t)
via the integration procedure one chooses for Eq. (3).
Starting from an initial condition at t0 , xa (t0 ) we use the discrete time
model
xa (tk+1 ) = fa (x(tk ), tk )
(4)
to move forward to the first observation time τ1 , then to τ2 , ... eventually
reaching the end of the observation window at tF . Altogether by making N
model integration steps in each of the intervals [τn , τn+1 ] we make (F + 1)N
time steps.: t0 → τ1 → τ2 ... → τF → tF .
The measurements are noisy, and the models have errors; so this is a statistical problem. Our goal is to construct the conditional probability distribution, P (X|Y), of the model states X(tF ) = {x(t0 ), x(t1 ), ..., x(tN ), ..., x(tF )},
conditioned on the LF measurements Y(τF ) = {y(τ1 ), y(τ2 ), ..., y(τk ), ..., y(τF )}.
Assuming the transition to the model state at time tk+1 depends only
on the model state at time tk (that is, the dynamics in Eq. (4) is Markov)
and using identities on conditional probabilities [2], one may write the action
A(X) = − log[P (X|Y)] (suppressing the dependence on the observations Y
in A(X)) as
A(X) = −

F
X

CM I[X(τn ), y(τn )|Y(τn−1 )]

n=1
N (F +1)−1

−

X

log[P (x(tn+1 )|x(tn ))] − log[P (x(t0 ))],

(5)

n=0

where
the conditional
mutual information is given as [10] CM I(a, b|c) =


log

P (a,b|c)
P (a|c) P (b|c)

. If the model is error free, P (x(tn+1 )|x(tn )) is a delta function:

P (x(tn+1 )|x(tn )) = δ D (x(tn+1 ) − f (x(tn ), tn )).
With a representation of P (X|Y) we may evaluate conditional expected
values of functions G(X) on the path X(N F ) of the model through the
observation window [t0 , tF ] as
R

E[G(X)|Y] = hG(X)i =

dX G(X) exp[−A(X)]
R
,
dX exp[−A(X)]

in which
A(X) = −

F
X

log[P (y(τn )|X(τn ), Y(τn−1 )]

n=1

6

(6)

N (F +1)−1

X

−

log P [(x(tn+1 )|x(tn ))] − log[P (x(t0 ))],

(7)

n=0

and terms depending only on the observations were canceled between numerator and denominator in the expected value.
If the observations at the times τk are independent, and if the measurement function is the identity yr (τk ) = hr (x(τk )) = xr (τk ), and if the noise
in the measurements is Gaussian, with a diagonal inverse covariance matrix
Rm (r, τk ), the first term in the action A(X), the measurement error term,
takes the form

2
F X
L
X
Rm (r, τn )
(8)
xr (τn ) − yr (τn ) .
2
n=1 r=1
If no measurement is made at τk , Rm (r, τk ) = 0.
If the error in the model Eq. (4) is taken as additive and Gaussian with
diagonal inverse covariance matrix Rf (a) the second term in A(X), the model
error term, becomes
N (F +1)−1 D
X
X
n=0

2

Rf (a)
xa (tn+1 ) − fa (x(tn ), tn )
2
a=1


.

(9)

In each term constants having to do with normalizations of the Gaussians
cancel in the expected value. If we keep these constants and take the limit
Rf (a) → ∞, we would restore the delta function in the dynamics.
Finally, if one accepts ignorance of the distribution of initial conditions
P (x(t0 )) and selects it as uniform over the dynamical range of the model
variables, hG(X)i is evaluated with
A0 (X) =


L
F X
X
Rm (r, τn )

2

n=1 r=1
N (F +1)−1 D

+

X

X Rf (a) 

n=0

a=1

2
R

hG(X)i =

2

xr (τn ) − yr (τn )

xa (tn+1 ) − fa (x(tn ), tn )

dX G(X) exp[−A0 (X)]
R
,
dX exp[−A0 (X)]

2

.

(10)

(11)

This is the desired connection between the machine learning formulation
(with model error) and the statistical data assimilation formulation: identify
layer labels as time l ⇔ t.
7

This alone could be of passing interest. However, there is much in the
connection that may be of some utility. We will discuss these items in the
data assimilation language, but the translation should be easy at this point.
For statistical data assimilation we call this A0 (X) the standard model.
The critical suggestion here relative to standard practice in machine learning [1, 12, 21], is that by allowing Rf to be finite from the outset–so acknowledging model error–we may add an additional tool for exploration in machine
learning environments where typically no account for model error is introduced. Further, the hyper-parameter Rf serves as a regulating device for the
complexity of the surface in path space in which the estimation of states and
parameters occurs.

4
4.1

Data Assimilation Developments of Use in
Machine Learning
Finding the Global Minimum

The key to establishing estimates for unobserved state variables (L < D) and
for unknown parameters in the model is to perform, approximately of course,
the integral Eq. (11). One can do this using Monte Carlo methods [18] or
by the method of Laplace [19, 20]. In the Laplace method one seeks minima
of the action A0 (X), Eq. (10). The integral is not Gaussian. If it were, we
would just do it. As the functions fa (•) are nonlinear, we must perform a
numerical evaluation of Eq. (6).
The Laplace method approximates the integral with contributions from
the lowest minima of the action, if one can find them. Minima associated
with paths X having larger action give exponentially smaller contributions
to expected values, Eq. (11), than paths with smaller action. This allows
one to circumvent a search for the global minimum if the parameters, hyperparameters [12], and other aspects of the model and data yield a set of action
levels connected with minima of the action such that one path yields an action level much smaller than any other path. For numerical accuracy one
may use that smallest minimum path (comprised of parameters and ‘hidden’
(unobserved) state variables) neglecting larger minima of the action.
We have developed a variational annealing (VA) approach [32, 33], to
finding the path with the smallest value of the action. While we have no
proof that the global minimum is found, our numerical results indicate this
8

may be the case. The VA method produces a set of minima of the action
giving a numerical clue as to the roughness of the surface in path X space.
In data assimilation the surface depends, among other items, on the number of measurements L at each observation time τk , on the hyper-parameter
Rf , and on the number of model time steps between measurement times τn .
This translates directly to the analogous machine learning problem with time
→ layer. As the number of model time steps between measurement times
increases, the number of hidden layers increases and the model architecture
deepens.
VA proceeds by a kind of numerical continuation [3] in Rf of the requirement that varying over all X and all parameters in A0 (X) minimizes A0 (X).
The procedure begins by taking Rf → 0, namely the complete opposite of
the value found in usual machine learning where Rf → ∞ (deterministic,
error free layer to layer maps) from the outset. In the Rf = 0 limit, the
action is just a quadratic function of the model variables x(τk ) at the times
measurements are made, and the minimization is simple: xr (τk ) = yr (τk ) for
the r = 1, 2, ..., L ≤ D data presented at the input and output layers. The
minimum can be degenerate as we know only L ≤ D values for the state
variables.
At the first step of VA we choose as a solution to the optimization problem
xr (τk ) = yr (τk ) and select the other D−L states as drawn from a uniform distribution with ranges known from the dynamical range of the state variables.
One can learn that well enough by solving the underlying model forward for
various initial conditions. We make this draw K times, and now have K paths
X0 as candidates for the VA procedure.
Now we select a small value for Rf , call it Rf 0 . With the previous K
paths X0 as K initial choices in our minimization algorithm, we find K paths
X1 for the minimization problem with Rf = Rf 0 . This gives us K values of
the action A0 (X1 ) associated with the new paths X1 .
Next we increase the value of Rf to Rf = Rf 0 α where α > 1. (We have
found values of α in the range 1.1 to 2 to be good choices). For this new value
of Rf , we perform the minimization of the action starting with the K initial
paths X1 from the previous step to arrive at K new paths X2 . Evaluating the
action on these paths A0 (X2 ) now gives us an ordered set of actions that are
no longer as degenerate. Many of the paths X2 may give the same numerical
value of the action, however,
typically the ‘degeneracy’ lies within the noise
√
level of the data ≈ (1/ Rm ).
This procedure is continued until Rf is ‘large enough’ which is indicated
9

by at least one of the action levels becoming substantially independent of
Rf . As a check on the calculation, we observe that if the action A0 (X) is
independent of Rf , its expected value is that of the measurement error term.
As the measurement errors were taken to be Gaussian, this term in the action
is distributed as χ2 , and its expected value is readily evaluated. If the action
levels are at this expected value of χ2 for large Rf , the procedure is consistent
and no further increases in Rf are required.
Effectively VA starts with a problem (Rf = 0) where the global minimum is apparent and systematically tracks it and many other paths through
increases in Rf . In doing the ‘tracking’ of the global minimum, one must
check that the selected value of α is not too large lest one leave the global
minimum and land in another minimum. Checking the result using smaller
α is worthwhile.
It is important to note that simply starting with a large value of Rf places
one in the undesirable situation of the action A0 (X) having multiple local
minima into which any optimization procedure is quite likely to fall.
In the dynamical problems we have examined, one typically finds that as
the number of measurements L at each τk is increased, fewer and fewer minima of the action remain and when L is large enough there is one minimum.
This we attribute to the additional information from the augmented set of
measurements, and this will be manifest in the discussion below where the
additional information effectively controls unstable directions in the phase
space.

4.2

Smallest Minimum; Not Necessarily a Convex Action

As our goal is to provide accurate estimations of the conditional expected
value of functions G(X) where X, a path in model space, is distributed as
exp[−A(X)], we actually do not require convexity of A(X) as a function in
path space. From the point of view of accurately estimating expected values,
it is sufficient that the lowest action level be much smaller than the second
lowest action level. If the action value at the lowest level A(Xlowest ) is
much smaller than the action value at the next minimum A(Xsecond lowest ),
then by a factor exp[−{A(Xlowest ) − A(Xsecond lowest )}], the lowest path
Xlowest dominates the integral to be done and provides a sensible choice for
the path at which to evaluate the integral.

10

5

Examples from Feedforward Neural Networks and from Data Assimilation

In this section we examine one example from multi-layer perceptrons and one
example from statistical data assimilation. The latter utilizes a differential
equation model introduced by Lorenz in 1996 [23] which permits one to easily
increase the number of dimensions of the phase space, to easily select the
number of observations within a designated measurement window, and to
easily choose the number of model evaluations between measurement times.
The latter is analogous to increasing the number of layers in a multi-layer
perceptron.
In each case we perform a ‘twin experiment’. We use a model to generate
solutions from some initial conditions. These solutions, when Gaussian noise
is added to them, become our noisy data. Using the noisy data we use
VA to estimate the unobserved state variables (hidden layer variables) and
parameters/weights.

5.1

Data Assimilation for Lorenz96 Model

We begin by examining the dynamical equations introduced by [23]:
dxa (t)
= xa−1 (t)(xa+1 (t) − xa−2 (t)) − xa (t) + ν
dt

(12)

and a = 1, 2, ..., D; x−1 (t) = xD−1 (t); x0 (t) = xD (t); xD+1 (t) = x1 (t). ν is a
fixed parameter which we take to be 10.0 where the solutions to the dynamical
equations are chaotic [16]. The equations for the states xa (t); a = 1, 2, ..., D
are meant to describe ‘weather stations’ on a periodic spatial lattice. This
model is widely used in atmospheric science as a testbed for the exploration
of innovative data assimilation ideas.
Our example selects D = 11, and displays the action level plot for L =
2, 4, 5, and 6 observations at each measurement time within the window
[t0 , tF ]. We perform a ‘twin experiment’ wherein we generate D time series
{xa (t); a = 1, 2, ..., D} for Eq. (12) using a standard adaptive fourth order
Runge-Kutta algorithm with a time step ∆t = 0.025 and an initial condition
x(t0 ) drawn from a uniform distribution over the range of the variables x(t),
namely [-10, +10]. To these solutions of Eq. (12) we add Gaussian noise
with mean zero and variance σ 2 = 0.2 to each time series xa (t). These noisy
11

versions of our model time series constitute our ‘data’ {ya (t)}. L of these D
time series are presented to the model at times τn ; t0 ≤ τn ≤ tF .
The measurement window is from t0 = 0 to tF = 4.125. L = 2, 4, 5, 6
‘measurements’ are made at each time step; these are the y(τn ). The measurement error matrix Rm is taken to have diagonal elements at each measurement time τn and is zero at other times. Its magnitude is taken as
Rm = 1/σ 2 = 5.
The model error matrix Rf (a) is also taken as diagonal, with elements
along the diagonal Rf = Rf 0 2β , in performing the VA procedure, and we
take β = 0, 1, 2, . . . . Rf 0 was chosen 0.01.
The minimizations of nonlinear objective functions in the example using the Lorenz96 model was performed using the public domain software
IPOPT [30] with a front end script written in Python.
In Fig. (1) we display action level plots for L = 2, 3, 4, and 6 observations
at each measurement time. As we can see in the TopLeftPanel, where
L = 2, there are numerous local minima in the action A0 (X) for all values of
Rf ≥ Rf 0 , and these remain to large Rf . None of these minima is very far
separated from the paths with the smallest minimum, so that the evaluation
of the expected value integrals Eq. (11) would require contributions from
many maxima of the conditional probability distribution.
When L = 4, TopRightPanel we begin to see an isolated action level
whose contribution to the expected value integral is overwhelmingly larger
than the contribution from path giving rise to the next largest action level.
The value L = 4 is consistent with the observation in [16] that around 0.4D
the instabilities in the Lorenz96 state space appear to be controlled by the
data assimilation process.
At L = 5 or 6, BottomPanels, we see that the dominance of the lowest
action level is even clearer. The horizontal olive colored line is the expected
value of the measurement error term in the action. This is a sign of the
consistency of the data assimilation calculations.
In Fig. (2) we explore another aspect of the action level plots. We
still use D = 11, and we hold L = 6 fixed. The number of observations
within the window [t0 , tF ] has been reduced from 165 to 28 and we move
the model forward between observations 0, 2, 5 or 11 times. This is to
provide an analogy to how many layers are present in an equivalent machine
learning example. Our example here differs by having many entry points in
the measurement window while the machine learning example has only one.
We display in the LeftPanel the action level plots for the selected number
12

of model evaluation steps. As one can see for 0 and 2 intermediate steps we
have many persisting minima of the action. At 5 and 11 intermediate steps,
there is only a single minimum that is found, and for large Rf it comes to the
same action level as with 2 intermediate steps. All are consistent with the
expected value of the measurement error term. This calculation, performed
in a machine learning context provides information on how many hidden
layers are required to achieve a desired accuracy.
In the RightPanel we display the accuracy of the estimation of the single
parameter in the Lorenz96 model. It has been set at ν = 10.0 in producing
the data, and that value is clearly selected for 5 or 11 intermediate model
evaluations, while it is not so clearly selected for 2 intermediate steps and
with zero intermediate steps there is a consistent few percent error.
We see, in this collection of calculations, as noted earlier [32, 33], the ability to identify the dominant minimum of the action depends on the number
of measurements presented during the statistical data assimilation procedure
embodying transfer of information from the data to the model. In data assimilation this is associated with the number of positive conditional Lyapunov
exponents [16] of the model. In the machine learning instantiation it may
play the same role when the number of data presented at the output layer is
not sufficient to determine the parameters and hidden states in each layer.
We also see the analogue of deepening the network produces higher accuracy estimates of conditional expected values.

5.2

A Multi-Layer Perceptron; Feedforward Network

We constructed a feedforward network with lF layers: One input layer at
l0 and one output layer at lF . This network has lF − 2 hidden layers. We
analyzed lF = 20, 30, 50 and 100. There are N = 10 ‘neurons’ in each layer.
The activity in neuron j in layer l xj (l) is related to xj (l − 1) in the previous
layer as
z
(13)
xj (l) = g(W (l)x(l − 1)); g(z) = 0.5[1 + tanh( )].
2
We also investigated the “ReLU”-like function g(z) = log[1 + ez ], but we do
not report on those results. The activations at the input layer are drawn from
a Gaussian N (0, 1). The weights are selected from a uniform distribution
U [−0.1, 0.1]. Gaussian measurement noise was added to the ‘data’ generated
by the model; this has zero mean and variance 0.0025.

13

Figure 1: Action level plots for the Lorenz96 model Eq. (12) with D = 11
and ν = 10.0. The variational annealing procedure is performed with 100
different initial conditions for the minimization of the action at each value
of Rf = Rf 0 αβ ; β = 0, 1, ...; α = 2. Top Left Panel: L = 2 measurements
at each measurement time. At L = 2, there are many minima, but none so
much smaller than the others that it dominates the expected value integral
Eq. (11). Top Right Panel: L = 4 measurements at each measurement
time. At L = 4, the action in path space X has numerous local minima. The
lowest minimum has an action value much smaller than the action values
from the other minima, and this dominates the expected value integral Eq.
(11). Bottom Left Panel: L = 5 measurements at each measurement time.
At L = 5, the number of minima found is only two, and again the lowest
minimum dominates the expected value integral. Bottom Right Panel L
= 6 measurements at each measurement time. At L = 6, there is only one
minimum of the action. The solid green line is the expected value of the
measurement error term. This is distributed as χ2 . As the action becomes
independent of Rf , its expected value should equal this value.
14

Figure 2: Parameter estimation and action level results for the Lorenz96
model, D = 11, L = 6. The parameter value ν = 10.0 was used in the twin
experiments on the model. Observations were made every ∆tobs = 0.15, and L
= 6 measurements were made at each observation time. Left Panel: Action
Level Estimates These are the action levels when L = 6 observations are
made at each measurement time and with the choice of 0, 2, 5, and 11
model evaluation steps between measurement times. The horizontal olive
green line indicates the expected action level for large Rf . Right Panel
Parameter estimates Between the observations the model was evaluated
0, 2, 5 and 11 times leading to ∆tmodel = 1.0, 0.33, 0.16, and 0.08 ∗∆tobs .
The parameter estimates are quite accurate for 5 and for 11 model time
steps between observations. They are more distributed for 0 or 2 model step
between observations. One can associate the idea of increasing the number
of model steps between observations as equivalent to ‘deepening’ the hidden
(unobserved) layers. The horizontal olive green line indicates the parameter
value, 10.0, used in generating the data.

15

Our data are for the twin experiment, where we know all weights, all
inputs and generate all values of x(l) in each layer [l0 , lF ]. These are recorded,
and Gaussian noise with mean zero and variance 0.0025 is added to the data
at layers l0 = 1 and lF starting from known values x(l0 ). These data are
yi (1) for the input layer and yi (20) for the output layer.
M input/output pairs are presented to the model with L = 1, 5, and 10
(k)
(k)
inputs yi (l0 ) at layer l0 and L = 1, 5, 10 data outputs yi (lF ) at layer lF .
k = 1,2,...,M, and we investigated M = 1, 10, 100.
We minimize the action over all the weights and the states x(k)
a (l) at all
layers of the model:

M 
L 
Rm X
1 X
(k)
(k)
(k)
(k)
2
2
(xr (l0 ) − yr (l0 )) + (xi (lF ) − yi (lF ))
AM (X) =
M k=1 2L r=1
lF
−1 X
N
X
Rf
x(k) (l + 1) − g(W (l)x(k) (l))
N (lF − 1) l=1 a=1 a

2 



+

,

(14)

where we have N = 10 neurons in each layer and L ≤ N data at the input l0
and at the output layers lF .
We use the variational annealing procedure described above to identify
the action levels for various paths through the network. The initial value of
Rf 0 /Rm is taken to be 10−8 and this is incremented via Rf /Rm = Rf 0 αβ
with α = 1.1 and β = 0, 1, ...,.
In the numerical optimizations for the machine learning example we used
L-BFGS-B [5, 34].
There are at least two ways to present more information to the model in
this setting:
• increase the number of training pairs available to the network at l0 and
lF ; this is our number M . M can be chosen as large as the user wishes.
• increase the number of components of the input/output pair vectors;
this is our number L. L ≤ N , the number of neurons in l0 or lF .
The resolution of the model in its ability to capture variations in activity
from layer to layer is improved by increasing the number of layers lF .
In Fig. (3) we explore the action levels as a function of Rf /Rm as we
increase the number of layers lF in the model: lF = 20, 30, 50, 100. We hold
fixed the number of neurons N = 10, the number of training pairs M = 100
and the number of inputs and outputs L = 10 at l0 and lF .
16

In each case there are many local minima, but only when lf = 50 does
the lowest action minimum significantly split from the other action minima
and qualify to dominate the expected value integral Eq. (11). When lF is
increased from 50 to 100, the lowest action minimum comes closer to the
second lowest minimum. This is seen as a result of the much larger number
of weights to be estimated at the latter value of lF while we are holding
fixed through the values of L and M the information available to make those
estimations.
In Fig. (4) we hold M fixed at 100, and lF fixed at 50 while we look at
L = 1, 5, 10 values of the dimension of input/output pairs.
In Fig. (5) we hold fixed the number of layers lF , the number of neurons
in each layer N = 10 and the dimension of the input/output vectors yr(k) (l0 )
and yr(k) (lF ); r = 1, 2, ..L = 10. We show the effect of increasing the number
of input/output pairs from M = 1 to M = 10 to M = 100. The emergence
of a lowest action minimum as M increases is displayed. This can serve as a
candidate for approximating Eq. (11).
In Fig. (6) we display the error in prediction after the mode, with lF = 50
layers, has been set by the estimation of the weights. This error is constructed
by selecting MP new input output pairs. Using each of the input elements
for L ≤ N components, we use the model with our estimated weights to
(k)
evaluate x(k)
r (lF ) and compare that with yr (lF ) from each of the MP pairs.
The square error averaged over L presented components and over MP pairs
MP X
L
1 X
(xr(k) (lF ) − yr(k) (lF ))2
LMP k=1 r=1

(15)

is displayed.
We see that increasing the information presented via increasing L or M
leads to decreased average prediction errors when choosing the path corresponding to the lowest action level, Top Layers, or choosing the path
associated with the second lowest action level Bottom Panel. The differences in quality of prediction (or generalization) in these examples among
the cases analyzed is not large, and this has been noted [12].

5.3

Recurrent Networks

In this network architecture one allows both interactions among neurons
from one layer to another layer as well as interactions among neurons within
17

Figure 3: Holding the number of neurons in each layer fixed at 10, the
number of input/output pairs fixed at M = 100, and the number of inputs
and outputs at l0 and lF fixed at L = 10, we vary the number of layers (the
deepening of the network) and examine the action level plots arising from the
variational annealing procedure. Upper Left Panel lF = 20 Top Right
Panel lF = 30 Bottom Left Panel lF = 50 and Bottom Right Panel
lF = 100.

18

Figure 4: Holding the number of neurons fixed N = 10, the number of layers
fixed lF = 50, and the number of input/output training pairs fixed M = 100,
we display the action levels as we vary the number of inputs at l0 and the
number of outputs at lF . Top Left Panel L = 1. Top Right Panel L = 5.
Bottom Panel L = 10.

19

Figure 5: Holding the number of neurons fixed N = 10, the number of layers
fixed lF = 50, and the number of inputs L = 10 at l0 and the number of
outputs at lF , we display the action levels as we vary the number of training
pairs M . Top Left Panel M = 1. Top Right Panel M = 10. Bottom
Panel M = 100.

20

Figure 6:

Prediction Errors for the AI/Machine Learning Network
(k)
(k)
2
r=1 (xr (lF ) − yr (lF )) averaged over MP new input/output
k=1
pairs. A noisy input yr(k) (l0 ) produces the output x(k)
r (lF ) using the model estimated using the M training sets. This is compared with the output yr(k) (lF )
produced with the original model used to produce the ‘data’ for the twin
experiment. In each case the number of neurons is N = 10 and lF = 50. Top
Left Panel Using the model associated with lowest Action Level: L = 10
and M = 1 and M = 10. Top Right Panel Using the model associated with
lowest Action Level: L = 5 and L = 10; M = 100. Bottom Panel Using
the model associated with the second lowest Action Level: L = 5 and 10; M
= 100.
1
LMP

PMP PL

21

a single layer [14, 8]. The activity xj (l) of neuron j, j = 1,2,...,N in layer l
P
{l0 , l1 , ..., lF } is given by xj (l) = f [ i wji (l)xi (l − 1)] in a feedforward, layer
goes to the next layer, network.
We can add interactions with a layer in the same fashion, and to give
some ‘dynamics’ to this within-layer activity we introduce a sequential label
σ to the activity of neuron j in layer l: xj (l, σ). The mapping from layer to
layer and within a layer can be summarized by
xj (l, σ) = f [

X

wji (l)xi (l − 1, σ) +

i

X

Wji (l)xj (l, σ − 1)],

(16)

i

Another version of this allows the nonlinear function to be different for layerto-layer connections and within-layer connections, so
xj (l, σ) = f [

X

X

wji (l)xi (l − 1, σ)] + g[

i

Wji (l)xj (l, σ − 1)],

(17)

i

where f (x) and g(x) can be different nonlinear functions.
We can translate these expressions into the DA structure by recognizing
that xj (l) is the ‘model variable’ in the layer-to-layer function while in the
recurrent network, the state variables become xj (l, σ). It seems natural that
as dimensions of connectivity are added–here going from solely feedforward
to that plus within-layer connections–that additional independent variables
would be aspects of the ‘neuron’ state variables’ representation.
In adding connections among the neurons within a layer we have another
independent variable, we called it σ, and the ‘point’ neurons depending on
layer alone become fields xj (l, σ). In the machine learning/AI networks
we have no restrictions on the number of independent variables. This may
lead to the investigation of ‘neural’ fields φj (v) where v is a collection of
independent variables indicating which layers are involved in the progression
of the field from an input to an output layer.
However many independent variables and however many ‘neurons’ we
utilize in the architecture of our model network, the overall goal of identifying
the conditional probability distribution P (X|Y) and estimating the moments
or expected values of interest still comes down to one form or another in the
approximation of integrals such as Eq. (6).

22

5.4

Making Time Continuous; Continuous Layers: Deepest Learning

There is much to learn about the data assimilation or machine learning problem as the number of layers or equivalently the number of time points within
an epoch becomes very large. The limit of the action where the number
of layers in an epoch becomes a continuous variable is, in data assimilation
notation [15],
Z tF

A0 (x(t), ẋ(t)) =

dt L(x(t), ẋ(t), t)
t0
L
X

2

Rm (l, t)
L(x(t), ẋ(t), t) =
xr (t) − yr (t)
2
r=1


+


D
X
Rf (a)
a=1

2

2

x˙a (t) − Fa (x(t))

.

In this formulation the quantity Rm (l, t) is non-zero only near the times
t ≈ τk . It can be taken as proportional to δ(t − τk ).
Within the machine learning context we call this ‘deepest learning’ as the
number of layers goes to infinity in a useful manner.
The minimization of the action now requires that the paths
 x(t) in {x(t), ẋ(t)}
d ∂L(x(t),ẋ(t),t)
= ∂L(x(t),ẋ(t),t) ,
space satisfy the Euler-Lagrange equation
dt

∂ ẋa (t)

∂xa (t)

along with the boundary conditions δxa (t0 )pa (t0 ) = 0; δxa (tF )pa (tF ) = 0
where pa (t) = ∂L(x(t), ẋ(t), t)/∂ ẋa (t) is the canonical momentum.
For the standard model, the Euler-Lagrange equations take the form
Rf [

dxb (t)
d
δab + DFab (x(t))][
− Fb (x(t))] = Rm (l, t)δar (xr (t) − yr (t)), (18)
dt
dt

where we have DF(x) = ∂F(x)/∂x.
The E-L equations are the necessary condition, along with the accompanying boundary conditions, that show how errors represented on the right
hand side of the E-L equation drive the model variables at all layers to produce x(l) → y(l) where data is available.
In the integral for < G(X) >, the coordinates x(t0 ) and x(tF ) are not
restricted, so we have the ‘natural’ boundary conditions [11, 17, 22] pa (t0 ) = 0
and pa (tF ) = 0.
This shows quite clearly that the minimization problem requires a solution
of a two point boundary value problem in {x(t), v(t) = ẋ(t)} space. One way
to address two point boundary value problems is to start at one end, t0 with
a value of x(t0 ) and proceed from tF with a value of x(tF ) and integrate both
23

ways requiring a match [27]. Furthermore, the residual of the measurement
error term on the right hand side of Eq. (18) nudges the solution in x(t) to
the desired output.
If one were to specify x(t0 ), but not x(tF ), then the boundary conditions
for the Euler-Lagrange equation are the given x(t0 ) (δx(t0 ) = 0) and require
the canonical momentum pa (tF ) = 0. Examining the Hamiltonian dynamics
for this problem then suggest integrating the x(t) equation forward from
t0 and the canonical momentum equation backward from tF . This is back
propagation.
5.4.1

Hamiltonian Dynamics Realization

If one moves from the Lagrangian realization of the variational problem to a
Hamiltonian version by trading in the phase space from {x(t), v(t)} to canonical coordinates {x(t), p(t)}, then the Hamiltonian H(x, p) for the standard
model reads
H(x, p, t) =

D 
X
pa (t)pa (t)
a=1

2Rf (a)



+ pa (t)Fa (x(t)) −

L
X
Rm (r, t)
r=1

2

(xr (t) − yr (t))2 . (19)

In these coordinates the equations of motion are then given by Hamilton’s
equations
dpa (t)
∂Fb (x(t))
= −pb (t)
+ δar Rm (r, t)(xr (t) − yr (t))
dt
∂xa (t)
dxa (t)
pa (t)
= Fa (x(t)) +
.
dt
Rf (a)

(20)

Returning from this to discrete time (or layers) we see that if the variational principle is carried out in {x, p} space, the boundary conditions
pa (t0 ) = pa (tF ) = 0 are quite easy to impose while the other variables,
all the xa (tk ) and the pa (tk ); k 6= 0, F , are varied. Going forward in x and
backward in p is neither required nor suggested by this formulation. It is
worth noting that in either {x, v} space or {x, p} space, the continuous time
(layer) formulation has a symplectic symmetry [11, 15]. This not automatically maintained when the discrete time (layer) problem is reinstated [24, 31];
however, many choices of integration procedure in which time/layer becomes
discrete and the symplectic symmetry is maintained are known [24, 31, 13]
In a detailed analysis [15, 33] of the variational problem in Lagrangian
and Hamiltonian formulations, it appears that the direct Lagrangian version
24

in which the state variables x(tn ) or x(ln ) are varied, the symplectic structure
can be maintained and the boundary conditions on the canonical momentum
respected [24, 31].
In practice, this means that the direct variational methods suggested for
the machine learning problems taking into account model error (Rf 6= ∞)
may skirt issues associated with back propagation. This issue may be seen a
bit more directly by comparing how one moves in {x(t), ẋ(t)} space organized
by Eq. (18) with the motion in {x(t), p(t)} space guided by Eq. (20). These
are equivalent motions of the model in time/layer, connected by a Legendre
transformation from {x(t), ẋ(t)} → {x(t), p(t)}.
In the Hamiltonian form, where Rf → ∞ is the limit where one usually
works, moving in regions where DF(x) may have saddle points may ‘slow
down’ the progression in the canonical momentum p(t). This may occur at a
maximum, at a minimum, or at a saddle point of DF(x). At any of these the
observation in [21]: “The analysis seems to show that saddle points with only
a few downward curving directions are present in very large numbers, but
almost all of them have very similar values of the objective function. Hence,
it does not much matter which of these saddle points the algorithm gets
stuck at.” may apply. In the Lagrangian formulation Eq. (18) the manner
in which DF(x) enters the motion is quite different and may well avoid this
confounding property. We have pointed out that Eq. (20) is backprop. The
use of the Lagrangian variational principle [24, 31] solves the same problem,
so may have an unexpected virtue.

6

Summary and Discussion

This paper has been directed to drawing a direct analogy between the formulation of a much utilized class of machine learning problems and a set of
equivalent problems in data assimilation as encountered in many physical,
biological and geoscience problems as well as in many engineering analyses
where data driven model development and testing is a goal. The fundamental
equivalence of the two inquiries is the core of this paper.
The analogy allows us to identify methods developed in data assimilation
as potentially quite useful in machine learning contexts. In particular the
possibility of using variational annealing to produce the global minimum of
the action (cost function) of the standard model of data assimilation with
both observation error and model error appears potentially of value.
25

The idea of making time continuous for purposes of exploring properties of
data assimilation suggests a similar tactic in machine learning. The machine
learning step of making layers continuous we have called “deepest learning”
as deep learning appears to result from increasing the number of layers. In
the continuous layer (time) formulation, we see clearly that the problem to
be solved is a two point boundary value problem. This may lead to the
construction and solution of tractable models that may helpfully illuminate
how deep learning networks operate successfully and expand the possibilities
of utilizing them employing additional methods for numerical calculations
and for interpretation.
In the formulation of the statistical data assimilation problem at the general level expressed in Eq. (5) we see that the measurement error term which
is where information from data is passed to the model, it is explicitly information through the conditional mutual information that is being passed from
observations to the model. This suggests that the idea that deep learning
works because of major increases in computing power as well as in having
large data sets, however, the attribute of the data sets is not so much as they
are large but that they possess information, in a precise manner, that can be
utilized to learn about models. The conjunction of information transfer and
state and parameter estimation is embodied in the work of Rissanen [28, 29]
where he identifies the cost of estimating a parameter or a state variable at
some time. The arguments we have presented suggest evaluating how much
information in a data set is available to inform a model is of greater utility
than just the size of the data set itself.
One point not made explicit in the main text, but worth noting, is that
once we have formulated the data assimilation or machine learning problems
as accurately performing high dimensional integrals such as Eq. (6), the
Laplace approximation method, namely the usual variational principle, permits the investigation of corrections through further terms in the expansion
of the action about the path leading to the global minimum. In [33] it is
shown that corrections to this first approximation are small as Rf becomes
large when analyzing the standard model. This need not be the case for
other choices of noise distributions in the measurement error or model error
terms in the action.
Another item of interest is the argument noted in [21] that as the dimension of a model increases, one may find fewer and fewer local minima
confounding the search in path space for a global minimum, and in that
situation many more unstable saddle points in path space will arise [7, 6].
26

In the case of a chaotic system such as the Lorenz96 model, the evidence
is that however large the dimension of the model itself and the paths over
which one may search, there are multiple local minima until the number of
measurements at any observation time is large enough and the information
transferred to the model is sufficient. The role of the number of model
evaluations between observations, suggested in some of the arguments here,
also play a significant part in establishing whether the action surface has
many local minima.
The view of a deep network as moving from a few hidden layers to many
may also be illuminated by our arguments. One idea is that by increasing
the number of hidden layers one is increasing the resolution in the analog
of ‘time’ in data assimilation. When one does that in data assimilation, we
see it as probing the variation of the underlying model as it evolves from
an initial condition through ‘layer’ = ‘time.’ Missing the higher frequency
variations in time by employing a coarse grid in discrete time should have its
counterpart role in the feedforward networks discussed here.
It is recognized that the ‘neuron’ models widely utilized in machine learning applications have little in common with properties of biological neurons,
the construction and implementation of large networks that have successful
function within machine learning may prove a useful guide for the construction and implementation of functional natural neural networks.
Finally, it is important to comment that while the analogy drawn and
utilized here may improve the testing and validation of models supported by
observational data, it does not assist in the selection of the models and their
formulation. That is still a task to be addressed by the user.

Acknowledgments
We express our appreciation to our colleagues Dan Breen and Jeff Elman
for important discussions. Also the CENI team made finding the analogs
in this paper possible. Many thanks to Tim Gentner, Gert Cauwenberghs,
and especially Gabe Silva improved the manuscript. Jon Shlens provided
a detailed view from the active world of machine learning. Partial support from the MURI Program (N00014-13-1-0205) sponsored by the Office
of Naval Research is acknowledged as is support for A. Shirman from the
ARCS Foundation.

27

References
[1] Perspectives on Research in Artificial Intelligence and Artificial
General Intelligence Relevant to DoD, 2017. https://www.google.
com/?gws_rd=ssl#q=perspectives+on+research+in+artificial+
intelligence+and+artificial+general+intelligence.
[2] Henry D. I. Abarbanel. Predicting the Future: Completing Models of
Observed Complex Systems. Springer, 2013.
[3] E. L. Allgower and K. Georg. Numerical Continuation Methods: An
Introduction. Springer-Verlag, 1990.
[4] A. F. Bennett. Inverse Methods in Physical Oceanography. Cambridge
University Press, 1992.
[5] R. H. Byrd, P. Lu, and J. Nocedal. A limited memory algorithm for
bound constrained optimization. SIAM Journal on Scientific and Statistical Computing, 16:1190–1208, 1995.
[6] Anna Choromanska, Mikael Henaff, Michael Mathieu, Ge’rard Ben
Arous, and Yann LeCun. The loss surfaces of multilayer networks. In
18th International Conference on Artificial Intelligence and Statistics
(AISTATS), 2015.
[7] Yann N. Dauphin, Razvan Pascanu, Caglar Gulcehre, Kyunghyun Cho,
Surya Ganguli, and Yoshua Bengio. Identifying and attacking the saddle point problem in high-dimensional non-convex optimization. In Proceedings of the 27th International Conference on Neural Information
Processing Systems, NIPS’14, pages 2933–2941, Cambridge, MA, USA,
2014. MIT Press.
[8] J. L. Elman. Finding structure in time. Cognitive Science, 14:179–211,
1990.
[9] Geir Evensen.
Springer, 2009.

Data Assimilation:

The Ensemble Kalman Filter.

[10] Robert M. Fano. Transmission of Information; A Statistical Theory of
Communication. MIT Press, 1961.

28

[11] I. M. Gelfand and S. V. Fomin. Calculus of Variations. Dover Publications, Inc., 1963.
[12] Ian Goodfellow, Yoshua Bengio, and Aaron Courville. Deep Learning. MIT Press, Cambridge, MA; London, UK, 2016. http://www.
deeplearningbook.org.
[13] Ernst Hairer, Gerhard Wanner, and Christian Lubich. Geometric Numerical Integration: Structure-Preserving Algorithms for Ordinary Differential Equations. Springer Series in Computational Mathematics; Volume 31, 2nd edition, 2006.
[14] M. Jordan. Attractor dynamics and parallelism in a connectionist sequential machine. In Proceedings of the Eighth Conference of the Cognitive Science Society, pages 531–546. Cognitive Science Society, 1986.
[15] N. Kadakia, D. Rey, J. Ye, and H. D. I. Abarbanel. Symplectic structure
of statistical variational data assimilation. Quarterly Journal of the
Royal Meteorological Society, 143(703):756–771, 2017.
[16] Mark Kostuk. Synchronization and statistical methods for the data
assimilation of hvc neuron models. PhD Dissertation in Physics, University of California, San Diego, 2012.
[17] Mark Kot. A First Course In the Calculus of Variations. American
Mathematical Society; Providence, Rhode Island., 2014.
[18] Rubin H. Landau, Manuel Jose’ Paez, and Cristian C. Bordeianu. A
Survey of Computational Physics: Introductory Computational Science.
Princeton University Press, 2010.
[19] Pierre Simon Laplace. Memoir on the probability of causes of events.
Mémoires de Mathématique et de Physique, Tome Sixième, pages 621–
656, 1774.
[20] Pierre Simon Laplace. Memoir on the probability of the causes of events.
Statistical Science, 1(3):364–378, 1986. Translation to English by S. M.
Stigler.
[21] Yann LeCunn, Yoshua Bengio, and Geoffrey Hinton. Deep learning.
Nature, 521:436–444, 2015.
29

[22] Daniel Liberzon. Calculus of Variations and Optimal Control Theory.
Princeton University Press, 2012.
[23] Edward N Lorenz. Predictability: A problem partly solved. In Tim
Palmer and Renate Hagedorn, editors, Predictability of weather and climate. Cambridge, 2006.
[24] J. E. Marsden and M. West. Discrete mechanics and variational integrators. Acta Numerica, pages 357–514, 2001.
[25] K. G. Murty and S. N. Kabadi. Some np-complete problems in quadratic
and nonlinear programming. Mathematical Programming, 39:117–129,
1987.
[26] Alexander G. Parlos, Kil T. Chong, and Amir F. Atiya. Application
of the recurrent multilayer perceptron in modeling complex process dynamics. IEEE Transactions on Neural Networks, 5:255–266, 1994.
[27] W. H. Press, S. A. Teukolsky, W. T. Vetterling, and B. P. Flannery.
Numerical Recipes: The Art of Scientific Computing, Third Edition.
Cambridge University Press, 2007.
[28] Jorma Rissanen. Stochastic Complexity in Statistical Inquiry Theory.
World Scientific Publishing Co., Inc., River Edge, NJ, USA, 1989.
[29] Jorma Rissanen. Information and Complexity in Statistical Modeling.
Springer, 2007.
[30] A. R. Wachter and L. T. Biegler. On the implementation of an interiorpoint filter line-search algorithm for large-scale nonlinear programming.
Mathematical programming, 106:25–57, 2006.
[31] J. M. Wendlandt and J. E. Marsden. Mechanical integrators derived
from a discrete variational principle. Physica D: Nonlinear Phenomena,
106:223–246, 1997.
[32] J. Ye, N. Kadakia, P. J. Rozdeba, H. D. I. Abarbanel, and J. C. Quinn.
Improved variational methods in statistical data assimilation. Nonlinear
Processes in Geophysics, 22(2):205–213, 2015.

30

[33] J. Ye, Daniel Rey, Nirag Kadakia, Michael Eldridge, Uri Morone, Paul
Rozdeba, Henry D. I. Abarbanel, and John C. Quinn. A systematic variational method for statistical nonlinear state and parameter estimation.
Physical Review E, 2015.
[34] C. Zhu, R. H. Byrd, and J. Nocedal. L-bfgs-b: Algorithm 778: L-bfgs-b,
fortran routines for large scale bound constrained optimization. ACM
Transactions on Mathematical Software, 23:550–560, 1997.

31


